# Joshua Chapter 12

  1. now these are the kings of the land, whom the children of Israel struck, and possessed their land beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise, from the valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon, and all the Arabah eastward:
  2. Sihon ruler of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon, and ruled from Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and the middle of the valley, and half Gilead, even to the river Jabbok, the border of the children of Ammon;
  3. and the Arabah to the sea of Chinneroth, eastward, and to the sea of the Arabah, even the Salt Sea, eastward, the way to Beth Jeshimoth; and on the south, under the slopes of Pisgah:
  4. and the border of Og ruler of Bashan, of the remnant of the Rephaim, who lived at Ashtaroth and at Edrei,
  5. and ruled in Mount Hermon, and in Salecah, and in all Bashan, to the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and half Gilead, the border of Sihon ruler of Heshbon.
  6. Moses the helper of Yahweh and the children of Israel struck them. Moses the helper of Yahweh gave it for a possession to the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh.
  7. These are the kings of the land whom Joshua and the children of Israel struck beyond the Jordan westward, from Baal Gad in the valley of Lebanon even to Mount Halak, that goes up to Seir. Joshua gave it to the tribes of Israel for a possession according to their divisions;
  8. in the hill country, and in the lowland, and in the Arabah, and in the slopes, and in the wilderness, and in the South; the Hittite, the Amorite, and the Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
  9. the ruler of Jericho, one; the ruler of Ai, which is beside Bethel, one;
 10. the ruler of Jerusalem, one; the ruler of Hebron, one;
 11. the ruler of Jarmuth, one; the ruler of Lachish, one;
 12. the ruler of Eglon, one; the ruler of Gezer, one;
 13. the ruler of Debir, one; the ruler of Geder, one;
 14. the ruler of Hormah, one; the ruler of Arad, one;
 15. the ruler of Libnah, one; the ruler of Adullam, one;
 16. the ruler of Makkedah, one; the ruler of Bethel, one;
 17. the ruler of Tappuah, one; the ruler of Hepher, one;
 18. the ruler of Aphek, one; the ruler of Lassharon, one;
 19. the ruler of Madon, one; the ruler of Hazor, one;
 20. the ruler of Shimron Meron, one; the ruler of Achshaph, one;
 21. the ruler of Taanach, one; the ruler of Megiddo, one;
 22. the ruler of Kedesh, one; the ruler of Jokneam in Carmel, one;
 23. the ruler of Dor in the height of Dor, one; the ruler of Goiim in Gilgal, one;
 24. the ruler of Tirzah, one: all the kings thirty-one.
