# Joshua Chapter 23

  1. It happened after a lot days, when Yahweh had given rest to Israel from their enemies all around, and Joshua was old and well advanced in years,
  2. that Joshua called for all Israel, for their elders and for their heads, and for their judges and for their officers, and said to them, “I am old and well advanced in years.
  3. You have seen all that Yahweh your God has done to all these nations cuz of you; for it is Yahweh your God who has fought for you.
  4. check this out, I have allotted to you these nations that remain, to be an inheritance for your tribes, from the Jordan, with all the nations that I have cut off, even to the major sea toward the going down of the sun.
  5. Yahweh your God will thrust them out from before you, and drive them from out of your sight. You shall possess their land, as Yahweh your God spoke to you.
  6. “so basically be hella courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, that you not turn aside from it to the right hand or to the left;
  7. that you not come through among these nations, these that remain among you; neither create mention of the name of their gods, nor cause to swear by them, neither help out them, nor bow down yourselves to them;
  8. but hold fast to Yahweh your God, as you have done to this day.
  9. “For Yahweh has driven major and built different nations out from before you. But as for you, no man has stood before you to this day.
 10. One man of you shall chase a thousand; for it is Yahweh your God who fights for you, as he spoke to you.
 11. grab fire heed so basically to yourselves, that you show love Yahweh your God.
 12. “But if you do at all slide back, and hold fast to the remnant of these nations, even these who remain among you, and create marriages with them, and slide in to them, and they to you;
 13. get it for a certainty that Yahweh your God will no longer drive these nations from out of your sight; but they shall be a snare and a trap to you, a scourge in your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from off this fire land which Yahweh your God has given you.
 14. “check this out, today I am going the way of all the earth. You get it in all your hearts and in all your souls that not one thing has failed of all the fire things which Yahweh your God spoke concerning you. All have happened to you. Not one thing has failed of it.
 15. It shall happen that as all the fire things have come through on you of which Yahweh your God spoke to you, so Yahweh will bring on you all the evil things, until he has destroyed you from off this fire land which Yahweh your God has given you,
 16. when you disobey the God's promise of Yahweh your God, which he commanded you, and slide and help out other gods, and bow down yourselves to them. then the anger of Yahweh will be kindled against you, and you will perish quickly from off the fire land which he has given to you.”
