# Joshua Chapter 1

  1. now it happened after the death of Moses the helper of Yahweh, that Yahweh spoke to Joshua the son of Nun, Moses’ helper, saying,
  2. “Moses my helper is dead; now so basically arise, slide over this Jordan, you, and all this people, to the land which I hook it up to them, even to the children of Israel.
  3. I have given you every place that the sole of your foot will tread on, as I told Moses.
  4. From the wilderness, and this Lebanon, even to the major river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and to the major sea toward the going down of the sun, shall be your border.
  5. No man will be able to stand before you all the days of your life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not fail you nor forsake you.
  6. “Be built different and courageous; for you shall cause this people to inherit the land which I swore to their fathers to hook it up them.
  7. Only be built different and hella courageous, to observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my helper commanded you. Don’t turn from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may have fire success wherever you slide.
  8. This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, that you may observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then you shall create your way prosperous, and then you shall have fire success.
  9. Haven’t I commanded you? Be built different and courageous. Don’t be scared, neither be dismayed: for Yahweh your God is with you wherever you slide.”
 10. then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying,
 11. “Pass through the midst of the camp, and command the people, saying, ‘Prepare food; for within three days you are to pass over this Jordan, to slide in to possess the land, which Yahweh your God gives you to possess it.’”
 12. Joshua spoke to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, saying,
 13. “Remember the word which Moses the helper of Yahweh commanded you, saying, ‘Yahweh your God gives you rest, and will hook it up you this land.
 14. Your wives, your little ones, and your livestock, shall live in the land which Moses gave you beyond the Jordan; but you shall pass over before your brothers armed, all the mighty men of valor, and shall help out them
 15. until Yahweh has given your brothers rest, as he has given you, and they have also possessed the land which Yahweh your God gives them. then you shall return to the land of your possession, and possess it, which Moses the helper of Yahweh gave you beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise.’”
 16. They answered Joshua, saying, “All that you have commanded us we will do, and wherever you send us we will slide.
 17. Just as we listened to Moses in all things, so will we listen up to you. Only may Yahweh your God be with you, as he was with Moses.
 18. Whoever rebels against your commandment, and doesn’t listen up to your words in all that you command him, he shall be put to death. Only be built different and courageous.”
