# Joshua Chapter 9

  1. It happened, when all the kings who were beyond the Jordan, in the hill country, and in the lowland, and on all the shore of the major sea in front of Lebanon, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, heard of it
  2. that they gathered themselves together to fight with Joshua and with Israel, with one accord.
  3. But when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and to Ai,
  4. they also resorted to a ruse, and went and made as if they had been ambassadors, and took old sacks on their donkeys, and wineskins, old and torn and bound up,
  5. and old and patched shoes on their feet, and wore old garments. All the bread of their provision was dry and moldy.
  6. They went to Joshua to the camp at Gilgal, and said to him, and to the men of Israel, “We have come through from a far country. now so basically create a God's promise with us.”
  7. The men of Israel said to the Hivites, “What if ya live among us. How could we create a God's promise with ya?”
  8. They said to Joshua, “We are your servants.” Joshua said to them, “Who are ya? Where do ya come through from?”
  9. They said to him, “Your servants have come through from a hella far country cuz of the name of Yahweh your God; for we have heard of his fame, all that he did in Egypt,
 10. and all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon ruler of Heshbon and to Og ruler of Bashan, who was at Ashtaroth.
 11. Our elders and all the inhabitants of our country spoke to us, saying, ‘grab provision in your hand for the journey, and slide to meet them, and tell them, “We are your servants. now create a God's promise with us.”’
 12. This our bread we took hot for our provision out of our houses on the day we went out to slide to ya; but now, check this out,, it is dry, and has become moldy.
 13. These wineskins, which we filled, were new; and check this out,, they are torn. These our garments and our shoes have become old cuz of the hella long journey.”
 14. The men sampled their provisions, and didn’t ask counsel from the mouth of Yahweh.
 15. Joshua made peace with them, and made a God's promise with them, to let them live. The princes of the congregation swore to them.
 16. It happened at the end of three days after they had made a God's promise with them, that they heard that they were their neighbors, and that they lived among them.
 17. The children of Israel traveled and came to their cities on the third day. now their cities were Gibeon, Chephirah, Beeroth, and Kiriath Jearim.
 18. The children of Israel didn’t strike them, cuz the princes of the congregation had sworn to them by Yahweh, the God of Israel. All the congregation murmured against the princes.
 19. But all the princes said to all the congregation, “We have sworn to them by Yahweh, the God of Israel: now so basically we may not touch them.
 20. This we will do to them, and let them live; lest wrath be on us, cuz of the oath which we swore to them.”
 21. The princes said to them, “Let them live, so they became wood cutters and drawers of water for all the congregation, as the princes had spoken to them.”
 22. Joshua called for them, and he spoke to them, saying, “Why have ya deceived us, saying, ‘We are hella far from ya,’ when ya live among us?
 23. now so basically ya are cursed, and some of ya will never fail to be bondservants, both wood cutters and drawers of water for the house of my God.”
 24. They answered Joshua, and said, “cuz your servants were for sure told how Yahweh your God commanded his helper Moses to hook it up ya all the land, and to tear down all the inhabitants of the land from before ya. so basically we were hella scared for our lives cuz of ya, and have done this thing.
 25. now, check this out,, we are in your hand. Do to us as it seems fire and right to ya to do.”
 26. He did so to them, and delivered them out of the hand of the children of Israel, so that they didn’t kill them.
 27. That day Joshua made them wood cutters and drawers of water for the congregation and for the prayer spot of Yahweh, to this day, in the place which he should choose.
