# Acts Chapter 3

  1. Peter and John were going up into the God's house at the hour of talking to God, the ninth hour.
  2. A certain man who was lame from his mother’s womb was being carried, whom they laid daily at the door of the God's house which is called snatched, to ask gifts for the needy of those who entered into the God's house.
  3. Seeing Peter and John about to slide into the God's house, he asked to receive gifts for the needy.
  4. Peter, fastening his eyes on him, with John, said, “Look at us.”
  5. He listened to them, expecting to receive something from them.
  6. But Peter said, “Silver and gold have I none, but what I have, that I hook it up you. In the name of Jesus anointed one of Nazareth, get up and walk!”
  7. He took him by the right hand, and raised him up. Immediately his feet and his ankle bones received strength.
  8. Leaping up, he stood, and began to walk. He entered with them into the God's house, walking, leaping, and praising God.
  9. All the people checked out him walking and praising God.
 10. They recognized him, that it was he who used to sit begging for gifts for the needy at the snatched Gate of the God's house. They were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him.
 11. As the lame man who was healed held on to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the porch that is called Solomon’s, greatly wondering.
 12. When Peter checked out it, he responded to the people, “You men of Israel, why do you marvel at this man? Why do you fasten your eyes on us, as though by our own power or godliness we had made him walk?
 13. The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his helper Jesus, whom you delivered up, and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had determined to release him.
 14. But you denied the set apart and doing what's right One, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you,
 15. and killed the Prince of life, whom God raised from the dead, to which we are witnesses.
 16. By trusting the process in his name, his name has made this man built different, whom you check it out and get it. Yes, the trusting the process which is through him has given him this perfect soundness in the presence of you all.
 17. “now, brothers, I get it that you did this in ignorance, as did also your rulers.
 18. But the things which God announced by the mouth of all his prophets, that anointed one should suffer, he thus fulfilled.
 19. “turn it around so basically, and turn again, that your sins may be blotted out, so that there may come through times of refreshing from the presence of the boss,
 20. and that he may send anointed one Jesus, who was ordained for you before,
 21. whom heaven must receive until the times of restoration of all things, which God spoke long ago by the mouth of his set apart prophets.
 22. For Moses facts said to the fathers, ‘The boss God will raise up a God's messenger for you from among your brothers, like me. You shall listen up to him in all things whatever he says to you.
 23. It will be, that every soul that will not listen up to that God's messenger will be utterly destroyed from among the people.’
 24. Yes, and all the prophets from Samuel and those who followed after, as a lot as have spoken, they also told of these days.
 25. You are the children of the prophets, and of the God's promise which God made with our fathers, saying to Abraham, ‘In your seed will all the families of the earth be blessed up.’
 26. God, having raised up his helper, Jesus, sent him to you first, to bless you, in turning away everyone of you from your wickedness.”
