# Acts Chapter 25

  1. Festus so basically, having come through into the province, after three days went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.
  2. then the high priest and the principal men of the Jews informed him against Paul, and they begged him,
  3. asking a favor against him, that he would summon him to Jerusalem; plotting to kill him on the way.
  4. but like Festus answered that Paul should be kept in custody at Caesarea, and that he himself was about to depart shortly.
  5. “Let them so basically,” said he, “that are in power among you slide down with me, and if there is anything wrong in the man, let them accuse him.”
  6. When he had stayed among them more than ten days, he went down to Caesarea, and on the next day he sat on the judgment seat, and commanded Paul to be brought.
  7. When he had come through, the Jews who had come through down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing against him a lot and grievous charges which they could not prove,
  8. while he said in his defense, “Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the God's house, nor against Caesar, have I sinned at all.”
  9. But Festus, desiring to gain favor with the Jews, answered Paul and said, “Are you willing to slide up to Jerusalem, and be judged by me there concerning these things?”
 10. But Paul said, “I am standing before Caesar’s judgment seat, where I ought to be tried. I have done no wrong to the Jews, as you also get it hella well.
 11. For if I have done wrong, and have committed anything worthy of death, I don’t refuse to die; but if none of those things is true that they accuse me of, no one can hook it up me up to them. I appeal to Caesar!”
 12. then Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered, “You have appealed to Caesar. To Caesar you shall slide.”
 13. now when some days had passed, ruler Agrippa and Bernice arrived at Caesarea, and greeted Festus.
 14. As he stayed there a lot days, Festus laid Paul’s case before the ruler, saying, “there is a certain man left a prisoner by Felix;
 15. about whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews informed me, asking for a sentence against him.
 16. To whom I answered that it is not the custom of the Romans to hook it up up any man to destruction, before the accused has met the accusers face to face, and has had opportunity to create his defense concerning the matter laid against him.
 17. When so basically they had come through together here, I didn’t delay, but on the next day sat on the judgment seat, and commanded the man to be brought.
 18. Concerning whom, when the accusers stood up, they brought no charge of such things as I supposed;
 19. but had certain questions against him about their own religion, and about one Jesus, who was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive.
 20. Being perplexed how to inquire concerning these things, I asked whether he was willing to slide to Jerusalem and there be judged concerning these matters.
 21. But when Paul had appealed to be kept for the decision of the emperor, I commanded him to be kept until I could send him to Caesar.”
 22. Agrippa said to Festus, “I also would like to hear the man myself.” “Tomorrow,” he said, “you shall hear him.”
 23. So on the next day, when Agrippa and Bernice had come through with major pomp, and they had entered into the place of hearing with the commanding officers and principal men of the city, at the command of Festus, Paul was brought in.
 24. Festus said, “ruler Agrippa, and all men who are here present with us, you check it out this man, about whom all the multitude of the Jews petitioned me, both at Jerusalem and here, crying that he ought not to live any longer.
 25. But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death, and as he himself appealed to the emperor I determined to send him.
 26. Of whom I have no certain thing to write to my boss. so basically I have brought him forth before you, and especially before you, ruler Agrippa, that, after examination, I may have something to write.
 27. For it seems to me unreasonable, in sending a prisoner, not to also specify the charges against him.”
