# Acts Chapter 26

  1. Agrippa said to Paul, “You may spill the tea for yourself.” then Paul stretched out his hand, and made his defense.
  2. “I think myself vibing, ruler Agrippa, that I am to create my defense before you this day concerning all the things that I am accused by the Jews,
  3. especially cuz you are expert in all customs and questions which are among the Jews. so basically I beg you to hear me patiently.
  4. “facts, all the Jews get it my way of life from my youth up, which was from the beginning among my own nation and at Jerusalem;
  5. having known me from the first, if they are willing to testify, that after the strictest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.
  6. now I stand here to be judged for the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers,
  7. which our twelve tribes, earnestly serving night and day, hope to attain. Concerning this hope I am accused by the Jews, ruler Agrippa!
  8. Why is it judged incredible with you, if God does raise the dead?
  9. “I myself most for sure thought that I ought to do a lot things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
 10. This I also did in Jerusalem. I both shut up a lot of the saints in prisons, having received authority from the chief priests, and when they were put to death I gave my vote against them.
 11. Punishing them a lot in all the synagogues, I tried to create them blaspheme. Being exceedingly enraged against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities.
 12. “Whereupon as I traveled to Damascus with the authority and commission from the chief priests,
 13. at noon, O ruler, I checked out on the way a light from the sky, brighter than the sun, shining around me and those who traveled with me.
 14. When we had all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.’
 15. “I said, ‘Who are you, boss?’ “He said, ‘I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.
 16. But arise, and stand on your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose: to appoint you a helper and a witness both of the things which you have seen, and of the things which I will reveal to you;
 17. delivering you from the people, and from the Gentiles, to whom I send you,
 18. to open their eyes, that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive remission of sins and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by trusting the process in me.’
 19. “so basically, ruler Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,
 20. but declared first to them of Damascus, at Jerusalem, and throughout all the country of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, that they should turn it around and turn to God, doing works worthy of repentance.
 21. For this reason the Jews seized me in the God's house, and tried to kill me.
 22. Having so basically obtained the help out that is from God, I stand to this day testifying both to tiny and major, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would happen,
 23. how the anointed one must suffer, and how, by the resurrection of the dead, he would be first to proclaim light both to these people and to the Gentiles.”
 24. As he thus made his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, “Paul, you are crazy! Your major learning is driving you insane!”
 25. But he said, “I am not crazy, most excellent Festus, but boldly declare words of truth and reasonableness.
 26. For the ruler knows of these things, to whom also I spill the tea freely. For I am persuaded that none of these things is hidden from him, for this has not been done in a corner.
 27. ruler Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I get it that you believe.”
 28. Agrippa said to Paul, “With a little persuasion are you trying to create me a Christian?”
 29. Paul said, “I pray to God, that whether with little or with much, not only you, but also all that hear me this day, might become such as I am, except for these bonds.”
 30. The ruler rose up with the governor, and Bernice, and those who sat with them.
 31. When they had withdrawn, they spoke one to another, saying, “This man does nothing worthy of death or of bonds.”
 32. Agrippa said to Festus, “This man might have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar.”
