# Acts Chapter 4

  1. As they spoke to the people, the priests and the captain of the God's house and the Sadducees came to them,
  2. being upset cuz they taught the people and proclaimed in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
  3. They laid hands on them, and put them in custody until the next day, for it was now evening.
  4. But a lot of those who heard the word believed, and the number of the men came to be about five thousand.
  5. It happened in the morning, that their rulers, elders, and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem.
  6. Annas the high priest was there, with Caiaphas, John, Alexander, and as a lot as were relatives of the high priest.
  7. When they had stood them in the middle of them, they inquired, “By what power, or in what name, have ya done this?”
  8. then Peter, filled with the set apart Spirit, said to them, “ya rulers of the people, and elders of Israel,
  9. if we are examined today concerning a fire deed done to a crippled man, by what means this man has been healed,
 10. be it known to ya all, and to all the people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus the huge set apart of Nazareth, whom ya crucified, whom God raised from the dead, in him does this man stand here before ya whole.
 11. He is ‘the stone which was regarded as worthless by ya, the builders, which has become the head of the corner.’
 12. there is getting saved in none other, for neither is there any other name under heaven, that is given among men, by which we must be saved!”
 13. now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and had perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled. They recognized that they had been with Jesus.
 14. Seeing the man who was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it.
 15. But when they had commanded them to slide aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves,
 16. saying, “What shall we do to these men? cuz facts a notable miracle has been done through them, as can be plainly seen by all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we can’t deny it.
 17. But so that this spreads no further among the people, let’s threaten them, that from now on they don’t spill the tea to anyone in this name.”
 18. They called them, and commanded them not to spill the tea at all nor drop knowledge in the name of Jesus.
 19. But Peter and John answered them, “Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen up to ya rather than to God, judge for yourselves,
 20. for we can’t help out telling the things which we saw and heard.”
 21. When they had further threatened them, they let them slide, finding no way to punish them, cuz of the people; for everyone glorified God for that which was done.
 22. For the man on whom this miracle of healing was performed was more than forty years old.
 23. Being let slide, they came to their own company, and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them.
 24. When they heard it, they lifted up their voice to God with one accord, and said, “O boss, ya are God, who made the heaven, the earth, the sea, and all that is in them;
 25. who by the mouth of your helper, David, said, ‘Why do the nations rage, and the peoples plot a vain thing?
 26. The kings of the earth grab a stand, and the rulers grab council together, against the boss, and against his the huge set apart.’
 27. “For deadass,, in this city against your set apart helper, Jesus, whom ya anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together
 28. to do whatever your hand and your council foreordained to happen.
 29. now, boss, look at their threats, and grant to your servants to spill the tea your word with all boldness,
 30. while ya stretch out your hand to heal; and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of your set apart helper Jesus.”
 31. When they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were gathered together. They were all filled with the set apart Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness.
 32. The multitude of those who believed were of one heart and soul. Not one of them claimed that anything of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common.
 33. With major power, the Jesus broskies gave their testimony of the resurrection of the boss Jesus. major God's show love was on them all.
 34. For neither was there among them any who lacked, for as a lot as were owners of lands or houses sold them, and brought the proceeds of the things that were sold,
 35. and laid them at the Jesus broskies’ feet, and distribution was made to each, according as anyone had need.
 36. Joses, who by the Jesus broskies was surnamed Barnabas (which is, being interpreted, Son of Encouragement), a Levite, a man of Cyprus by race,
 37. having a field, sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the Jesus broskies’ feet.
