# Acts Chapter 22

  1. “Brothers and fathers, listen up to the defense which I now create to ya.”
  2. When they heard that he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, they were even more quiet. He said,
  3. “I am facts a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, instructed according to the strict tradition of the law of our fathers, being zealous for God, even as ya all are this day.
  4. I persecuted this Way to the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women.
  5. As also the high priest and all the council of the elders testify, from whom also I received letters to the brothers, and traveled to Damascus to bring them also who were there to Jerusalem in bonds to be punished.
  6. It happened that, as I made my journey, and came close to Damascus, about noon, suddenly there shone from the sky a major light around me.
  7. I fell to the ground, and heard a voice saying to me, ‘Saul, Saul, why are ya persecuting me?’
  8. I answered, ‘Who are ya, boss?’ He said to me, ‘I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom ya persecute.’
  9. “Those who were with me facts saw the light and were scared, but they didn’t understand the voice of him who spoke to me.
 10. I said, ‘What shall I do, boss?’ the boss said to me, ‘Arise, and slide into Damascus. there ya will be told about all things which are appointed for ya to do.’
 11. When I couldn’t check it out for the glory of that light, being led by the hand of those who were with me, I came into Damascus.
 12. One Ananias, a devout man according to the law, well reported of by all the Jews who lived in Damascus,
 13. came to me, and standing by me said to me, ‘fam bro Saul, receive your sight!’ In that hella hour I looked up at him.
 14. He said, ‘The God of our fathers has appointed ya to get it his will, and to check it out the doing what's right One, and to hear a voice from his mouth.
 15. For ya will be a witness for him to all men of what ya have seen and heard.
 16. now why do ya wait? Arise, be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on the name of the boss.’
 17. “It happened that, when I had returned to Jerusalem, and while I prayed in the God's house, I fell into a trance,
 18. and saw him saying to me, ‘Hurry and get out of Jerusalem quickly, cuz they won't receive testimony concerning me from ya.’
 19. I said, ‘boss, they themselves get it that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue those who believed in ya.
 20. When the blood of Stephen, your witness, was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting to his death, and guarding the cloaks of those who killed him.’
 21. “He said to me, ‘Depart, for I will send ya out far from here to the Gentiles.’”
 22. They listened to him until he said that; then they lifted up their voice, and said, “Rid the earth of this fellow, for he isn’t fit to live!”
 23. As they cried out, and threw off their cloaks, and threw dust into the air,
 24. the commanding officer commanded him to be brought into the barracks, ordering him to be examined by scourging, that he might get it for what crime they shouted against him like that.
 25. When they had tied him up with thongs, Paul asked the centurion who stood by, “Is it lawful for ya to scourge a man who is a Roman, and not found guilty?”
 26. When the centurion heard it, he went to the commanding officer and told him, “Watch what ya are about to do, for this man is a Roman!”
 27. The commanding officer came and asked him, “Tell me, are ya a Roman?” He said, “Yes.”
 28. The commanding officer answered, “I bought my citizenship for a major price.” Paul said, “But I was born a Roman.”
 29. Immediately those who were about to examine him departed from him, and the commanding officer also was scared when he realized that he was a Roman, cuz he had bound him.
 30. But on the next day, desiring to get it the truth about why he was accused by the Jews, he freed him from the bonds, and commanded the chief priests and all the council to come through together, and brought Paul down and set him before them.
