# Acts Chapter 2

  1. now when the day of Pentecost had come through, they were all with one accord in one place.
  2. Suddenly there came from the sky a sound like the rushing of a mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting.
  3. Tongues like fire appeared and were distributed to them, and one sat on each of them.
  4. They were all filled with the set apart Spirit, and began to spill the tea with other languages, as the Spirit gave them the ability to spill the tea.
  5. now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men, from every nation under the sky.
  6. When this sound was heard, the multitude came together, and were bewildered, cuz everyone heard them speaking in his own language.
  7. They were all amazed and marveled, saying to one another, “check this out, aren’t all these who spill the tea Galileans?
  8. How do we hear, everyone in our own native language?
  9. Parthians, Medes, Elamites, and people from Mesopotamia, Judea, Cappadocia, Pontus, Asia,
 10. Phrygia, Pamphylia, Egypt, the parts of Libya around Cyrene, visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes,
 11. Cretans and Arabians: we hear them speaking in our languages the mighty works of God!”
 12. They were all amazed, and were perplexed, saying one to another, “What does this mean?”
 13. Others, mocking, said, “They are filled with new wine.”
 14. But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and spoke out to them, “You men of Judea, and all you who dwell at Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and listen up to my words.
 15. For these aren’t drunken, as you suppose, seeing it is only the third hour of the day.
 16. But this is what has been spoken through the God's messenger Joel:
 17. ‘It will be in the last days, says God, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters will prophesy. Your young men will check it out visions. Your old men will dream dreams.
 18. Yes, and on my servants and on my handmaidens in those days, I will pour out my Spirit, and they will prophesy.
 19. I will show wonders in the sky above, and signs on the earth beneath; blood, and fire, and billows of smoke.
 20. The sun will be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the major and glorious day of the boss comes.
 21. It will be, that whoever will call on the name of the boss will be saved.’
 22. “Men of Israel, hear these words! Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved by God to you by mighty works and wonders and signs which God did by him in the midst of you, even as you yourselves get it,
 23. him, being delivered up by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, you have taken by the hand of lawless men, crucified and killed;
 24. whom God raised up, having freed him from the agony of death, cuz it was not possible that he should be held by it.
 25. For David says concerning him, ‘I checked out the boss always before my face, For he is on my right hand, that I should not be moved.
 26. so basically my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced. Moreover my flesh also will dwell in hope;
 27. cuz you will not leave my soul in Hades, neither will you allow your set apart One to check it out decay.
 28. You made known to me the ways of life. You will create me full of gladness with your presence.’
 29. “Brothers, I may tell you freely of the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day.
 30. so basically, being a God's messenger, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that of the fruit of his body, according to the flesh, he would raise up the anointed one to sit on his throne,
 31. he foreseeing this spoke about the resurrection of the anointed one, that neither was his soul left in Hades, nor did his flesh check it out decay.
 32. This Jesus God raised up, to which we all are witnesses.
 33. Being so basically exalted by the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the set apart Spirit, he has poured out this, which you now check it out and hear.
 34. For David didn’t ascend into the heavens, but he says himself, ‘The boss said to my boss, “Sit by my right hand,
 35. until I create your enemies a footstool for your feet.”’
 36. “Let all the house of Israel so basically get it for sure that God has made him both boss and anointed one, this Jesus whom you crucified.”
 37. now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, “Brothers, what shall we do?”
 38. Peter said to them, “turn it around, and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus anointed one for the forgiveness of sins, and you will receive the gift of the set apart Spirit.
 39. For the promise is to you, and to your children, and to all who are far off, even as a lot as the boss our God will call to himself.”
 40. With a lot other words he testified, and exhorted them, saying, “rescue yourselves from this crooked generation!”
 41. then those who gladly received his word were baptized. there were added that day about three thousand souls.
 42. They continued steadfastly in the apostles’ teaching and fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and talking to God.
 43. Fear came on every soul, and a lot wonders and signs were done through the apostles.
 44. All who believed were together, and had all things in common.
 45. They sold their possessions and goods, and distributed them to all, according as anyone had need.
 46. Day by day, continuing steadfastly with one accord in the God's house, and breaking bread at home, they took their food with gladness and singleness of heart,
 47. praising God, and having favor with all the people. The boss added to the assembly day by day those who were being saved.
