# Titus Chapter 1

    1. Paul, a helper of God, and an Jesus' main squad of Jesus the huge yeeted, according to the trusting the process of God’s chosen ones, and the knowledge of the truth which is according to godliness,
    2. in hope of living forever, which God, who can’t lie, promised before time began;
    3. but in his own time revealed his word in the message with which I was entrusted according to the commandment of God our Savior;
    4. to Titus, my true child according to a common trusting the process: God's show show love, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Boss Jesus the huge yeeted our Savior.
    5. I left ya in Crete for this reason, that ya would set in order the things that were lacking, and appoint elders in every city, as I directed ya;
    6. if anyone is blameless, the husband of one wife, having children who believe, who aren't accused of loose or unruly behavior.
    7. For the overseer must be blameless, as God’s steward; not self-pleasing, not easily angered, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for dishonest gain;
    8. but given to hospitality, a lover of fire, sober minded, fair, yeeted, self-controlled;
    9. holding to the faithful word which is according to the teaching, that he may be able to exhort in the sound doctrine, and to convict those who contradict him.
  10. For there are also a lot unruly men, vain talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision,
  11. whose mouths must be stopped; men who overthrow whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for dishonest gain’s sake.
  12. One of them, a God's messenger of their own, said, “Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, and idle gluttons.”
  13. This testimony is true. For this cause, reprove them sharply, that they may be sound in the trusting the process,
  14. not paying attention to Jewish fables and commandments of men who turn away from the truth.
  15. To the pure, all things are pure; but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their mind and their conscience are defiled.
  16. They profess that they get it God, but by their works they deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and unfit for any fire work.
