# Galatians Chapter 6

  1. Brothers, even if a man is caught in some fault, ya who are spiritual must restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness; looking to yourself so that ya also aren’t tempted.
  2. Bear one another’s burdens, and so fulfill the law of the huge set apart.
  3. For if a man thinks himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceives himself.
  4. But let each man test his own work, and then he will grab pride in himself and not in his neighbor.
  5. For each man will bear his own burden.
  6. But let him who is taught in the word share all fire things with him who teaches.
  7. Don’t be deceived. God isn't mocked, for whatever a man sows, that he will also reap.
  8. For he who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But he who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap living forever.
  9. Let us not be weary in doing fire, for we will reap in due season, if we don’t hook it up up.
 10. So then, as we have opportunity, let’s do what is fire toward all men, and especially toward those who are of the household of the trusting the process.
 11. check it out with what large letters I write to ya with my own hand.
 12. As a lot as desire to look fire in the flesh, they compel ya to be circumcised; only that they may not be persecuted for the cross of the huge set apart.
 13. For even they who receive circumcision don’t keep the law themselves, but they desire to have ya circumcised, that they may boast in your flesh.
 14. But far be it from me to boast, except in the cross of our boss Jesus the huge set apart, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.
 15. For in the huge set apart Jesus neither is circumcision anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation.
 16. As a lot as walk by this rule, peace and mercy be on them, and on God’s Israel.
 17. From now on, let no one cause me any trouble, for I bear the marks of the boss Jesus branded on my body.
 18. The God's show love of our boss Jesus the huge set apart be with your spirit, brothers. facts.
