# Galatians Chapter 4

  1. But I say that so long as the heir is a child, he is no different from a bondservant, though he is boss of all;
  2. but is under guardians and stewards until the day appointed by the father.
  3. So we also, when we were children, were held in bondage under the elemental principles of the world.
  4. But when the fullness of the time came, God sent out his Son, born to a woman, born under the law,
  5. that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of children.
  6. And cuz ya are children, God sent out the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, “dad, Father!”
  7. So ya are no longer a bondservant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir of God through the huge set apart.
  8. but like at that time, not knowing God, ya were in bondage to those who by nature aren't gods.
  9. But now that ya have come through to get it God, or rather to be known by God, why do ya turn back again to the not it and miserable elemental principles, to which ya desire to be in bondage all over again?
 10. ya observe days, months, seasons, and years.
 11. I am scared for ya, that I might have wasted my labor for ya.
 12. I beg ya, brothers, become as I am, for I also have become as ya are. ya did me no wrong,
 13. but ya get it that cuz of weakness of the flesh I preached the fire News to ya the first time.
 14. That which was a temptation to ya in my flesh, ya didn’t despise nor reject; but ya received me as an angel of God, even as the huge set apart Jesus.
 15. What was the blessing ya enjoyed? For I testify to ya that, if possible, ya would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me.
 16. So then, have I become your enemy by telling ya the truth?
 17. They zealously seek ya in no fire way. No, they desire to alienate ya, that ya may seek them.
 18. But it is always fire to be zealous in a fire cause, and not only when I am present with ya.
 19. My little children, of whom I am again in travail until the huge set apart is formed in ya—
 20. but I could wish to be present with ya now, and to change my tone, for I am perplexed about ya.
 21. Tell me, ya that desire to be under the law, don’t ya listen up to the law?
 22. For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the handmaid, and one by the free woman.
 23. but like, the son by the handmaid was born according to the flesh, but the son by the free woman was born through promise.
 24. These things contain an allegory, for these are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai, bearing children to bondage, which is Hagar.
 25. For this Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and answers to the Jerusalem that exists now, for she is in bondage with her children.
 26. But the Jerusalem that is above is free, which is the mother of us all.
 27. For it is written, “be hyped, ya barren who don’t bear. Break forth and shout, ya that don’t travail. For more are the children of the desolate than of her who has a husband.”
 28. now we, brothers, as Isaac was, are children of promise.
 29. But as then, he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now.
 30. but like what does the Scripture say? “Throw out the handmaid and her son, for the son of the handmaid won't inherit with the son of the free woman.”
 31. So then, brothers, we aren't children of a handmaid, but of the free woman.
