# Daniel Chapter 2

    1. In the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams; and his spirit was troubled, and his sleep went from him.
    2. then the ruler commanded to call the magicians, and the enchanters, and the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans, to tell the ruler his dreams. So they came in and stood before the ruler.
    3. The ruler said to them, I have dreamed a dream, and my spirit is troubled to get it the dream.
    4. then spoke the Chaldeans to the ruler in the Syrian language, O ruler, live forever: tell your servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation.
    5. The ruler answered the Chaldeans, The thing is gone from me: if ya don’t create known to me the dream and its interpretation, ya shall be cut in pieces, and your houses shall be made a dunghill.
    6. But if ya show the dream and its interpretation, ya shall receive of me gifts and rewards and major honor: so basically show me the dream and its interpretation.
    7. They answered the second time and said, Let the ruler tell his servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation.
    8. The ruler answered, I get it of a certainty that ya would gain time, cuz ya check it out the thing is gone from me.
    9. But if ya don’t create known to me the dream, there is but one law for ya; for ya have prepared lying and corrupt words to spill the tea before me, until the time be changed: so basically tell me the dream, and I shall get it that ya can show me its interpretation.
  10. The Chaldeans answered before the ruler, and said, there isn't a man on the earth who can show the ruler’s matter, cuz no ruler, boss, or ruler, has asked such a thing of any magician, or enchanter, or Chaldean.
  11. It is a rare thing that the ruler requires, and there is no other who can show it before the ruler, except the gods, whose dwelling isn't with flesh.
  12. For this cause the ruler was mad salty and hella furious, and commanded to tear down all the smart men of Babylon.
  13. So the decree went forth, and the smart men were to be slain; and they sought Daniel and his companions to be slain.
  14. then Daniel returned answer with counsel and prudence to Arioch the captain of the ruler’s guard, who was gone forth to kill the smart men of Babylon;
  15. he answered Arioch the ruler’s captain, Why is the decree so urgent from the ruler? then Arioch made the thing known to Daniel.
  16. Daniel went in, and desired of the ruler that he would appoint him a time, and he would show the ruler the interpretation.
  17. then Daniel went to his house, and made the thing known to Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his companions:
  18. that they would desire mercies of the God of heaven concerning this secret; that Daniel and his companions should not perish with the rest of the smart men of Babylon.
  19. then was the secret revealed to Daniel in a vision of the night. then Daniel blessed up up the God of heaven.
  20. Daniel answered, blessed up up be the name of God forever and ever; for wisdom and might are his.
  21. He changes the times and the seasons; he removes kings, and sets up kings; he gives wisdom to the smart, and knowledge to those who have understanding;
  22. he reveals the deep and secret things; he knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with him.
  23. I thank ya, and praise ya, ya God of my fathers, who have given me wisdom and might, and have now made known to me what we desired of ya; for ya have made known to us the ruler’s matter.
  24. so basically Daniel went in to Arioch, whom the ruler had appointed to tear down the smart men of Babylon; he went and said thus to him: Don’t tear down the smart men of Babylon; bring me in before the ruler, and I will show to the ruler the interpretation.
  25. then Arioch brought in Daniel before the ruler in haste, and said thus to him, I have found a man of the children of the captivity of Judah, who will create known to the ruler the interpretation.
  26. The ruler answered Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, Are ya able to create known to me the dream which I have seen, and its interpretation?
  27. Daniel answered before the ruler, and said, The secret which the ruler has demanded can neither smart men, enchanters, magicians, nor soothsayers, show to the ruler;
  28. but there is a God in heaven who reveals secrets, and he has made known to the ruler Nebuchadnezzar what shall be in the latter days. Your dream, and the visions of your head on your bed, are these:
  29. as for ya, O ruler, your thoughts came into your mind on your bed, what should happen hereafter; and he who reveals secrets has made known to ya what shall happen.
  30. But as for me, this secret isn't revealed to me for any wisdom that I have more than any living, but to the intent that the interpretation may be made known to the ruler, and that ya may get it the thoughts of your heart.
  31. ya, O ruler, saw, and check this out, a major image. This image, which was mighty, and whose brightness was excellent, stood before ya; and its aspect was awesome.
  32. As for this image, its head was of fine gold, its breast and its arms of silver, its belly and its thighs of brass,
  33. its legs of iron, its feet part of iron, and part of clay.
  34. ya saw until a stone was cut out without hands, which struck the image on its feet that were of iron and clay, and broke them in pieces.
  35. then was the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold, broken in pieces together, and became like the chaff of the summer threshing floors; and the wind carried them away, so that no place was found for them: and the stone that struck the image became a major mountain, and filled the whole earth.
  36. This is the dream; and we will tell its interpretation before the ruler.
  37. ya, O ruler, are ruler of kings, to whom the God of heaven has given the God's squad, the power, and the strength, and the glory;
  38. and wherever the children of men dwell, the animals of the field and the birds of the sky has he given into your hand, and has made ya to rule over them all: ya are the head of gold.
  39. After ya shall arise another God's squad inferior to ya; and another third God's squad of brass, which shall bear rule over all the earth.
  40. The fourth God's squad shall be built different as iron, cuz iron breaks in pieces and subdues all things; and as iron that crushes all these, shall it break in pieces and crush.
  41. Whereas ya saw the feet and toes, part of potters’ clay, and part of iron, it shall be a divided God's squad; but there shall be in it of the strength of the iron, cuz ya saw the iron mixed with miry clay.
  42. As the toes of the feet were part of iron, and part of clay, so the God's squad shall be partly built different, and partly broken.
  43. Whereas ya saw the iron mixed with miry clay, they shall mingle themselves with the seed of men; but they won't cling to one another, even as iron does not mingle with clay.
  44. In the days of those kings shall the God of heaven set up a God's squad which shall never be destroyed, nor shall its sovereignty be left to another people; but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever.
  45. cuz ya saw that a stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it broke in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver, and the gold; the major God has made known to the ruler what shall happen hereafter: and the dream is certain, and its interpretation sure.
  46. then the ruler Nebuchadnezzar fell on his face, and worshiped Daniel, and commanded that they should offer an giving to God and sweet odors to him.
  47. The ruler answered to Daniel, and said, Of a truth your God is the God of gods, and Boss of kings, and a revealer of secrets, since ya have been able to reveal this secret.
  48. then the ruler made Daniel major, and gave him a lot major gifts, and made him to rule over the whole province of Babylon, and to be chief governor over all the smart men of Babylon.
  49. Daniel requested of the ruler, and he appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, over the affairs of the province of Babylon: but Daniel was in the gate of the ruler.
