# Daniel Chapter 9

  1. In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, of the seed of the Medes, who was made ruler over the realm of the Chaldeans,
  2. in the first year of his reign I, Daniel, understood by the books the number of the years about which the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah the God's messenger, for the accomplishing of the desolations of Jerusalem, even seventy years.
  3. I set my face to the boss God, to seek by talking to God and petitions, with fasting and sackcloth and ashes.
  4. I prayed to Yahweh my God, and made confession, and said, Oh, boss, the major and dreadful God, who keeps God's promise and loving kindness with those who show love him and keep his commandments,
  5. we have sinned, and have dealt perversely, and have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even turning aside from your precepts and from your ordinances;
  6. neither have we listened to your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land.
  7. boss, righteousness belongs to ya, but to us confusion of face, as at this day; to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, who are near, and who are far off, through all the countries where ya have driven them, cuz of their trespass that they have trespassed against ya.
  8. boss, to us belongs confusion of face, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, cuz we have sinned against ya.
  9. To the boss our God belong mercies and forgiveness; for we have rebelled against him;
 10. neither have we obeyed the voice of Yahweh our God, to walk in his laws, which he set before us by his servants the prophets.
 11. Yes, all Israel have transgressed your law, turning aside, that they should not obey your voice: so basically the curse and the oath written in the law of Moses the helper of God has been poured out on us; for we have sinned against him.
 12. He has confirmed his words, which he spoke against us, and against our judges who judged us, by bringing on us a major evil; for under the whole sky, such has not been done as has been done to Jerusalem.
 13. As it is written in the law of Moses, all this evil has come through on us: yet have we not entreated the favor of Yahweh our God, that we should turn from our iniquities, and have discernment in your truth.
 14. so basically has Yahweh watched over the evil, and brought it on us; for Yahweh our God is doing what's right in all his works which he does, and we have not obeyed his voice.
 15. now, boss our God, who has brought your people forth out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and have gotten yourself renown, as at this day; we have sinned, we have done wickedly.
 16. boss, according to all your righteousness, let your anger and please let your wrath be turned away from your city Jerusalem, your set apart mountain; cuz for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people have become a reproach to all who are around us.
 17. now so basically, our God, listen up to the talking to God of your helper, and to his petitions, and cause your face to shine on your sanctuary that is desolate, for the boss’s sake.
 18. My God, turn your ear, and hear; open your eyes, and check it out our desolations, and the city which is called by your name: for we don't present our petitions before ya for our righteousness, but for your major mercies’ sake.
 19. boss, hear; boss, forgive; boss, listen up and do; don’t defer, for your own sake, my God, cuz your city and your people are called by your name.
 20. While I was speaking, and praying, and confessing my messing up and the messing up of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before Yahweh my God for the set apart mountain of my God;
 21. yes, while I was speaking in talking to God, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening giving to God.
 22. He instructed me, and talked with me, and said, Daniel, I am now come through forth to hook it up ya wisdom and understanding.
 23. At the beginning of your petitions the commandment went forth, and I have come through to tell ya; for ya are greatly beloved: so basically consider the matter, and understand the vision.
 24. Seventy weeks are decreed on your people and on your set apart city, to finish disobedience, and to create an end of sins, and to create reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most set apart.
 25. get it so basically and discern, that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to put together Jerusalem to the the huge set apart, the prince, shall be seven weeks, and sixty-two weeks: it shall be built again, with street and moat, even in troubled times.
 26. After the sixty-two weeks the the huge set apart shall be cut off, and shall have nothing: and the people of the prince who shall come through shall tear down the city and the sanctuary; and its end shall be with a flood, and even to the end shall be war; desolations are determined.
 27. He shall create a firm God's promise with a lot for one week: and in the midst of the week he shall cause the giving it up and the giving to God to cease; and on the wing of abominations shall come through one who makes desolate; and even to the full end, and that determined, shall wrath be poured out on the desolate.
