# Daniel Chapter 6

  1. It pleased Darius to set over the God's squad one hundred twenty satraps, who should be throughout the whole God's squad;
  2. and over them three presidents, of whom Daniel was one; that these satraps might hook it up account to them, and that the ruler should have no damage.
  3. then this Daniel was distinguished above the presidents and the satraps, cuz an excellent spirit was in him; and the ruler thought to set him over the whole realm.
  4. then the presidents and the satraps sought to find occasion against Daniel as touching the God's squad; but they could find no occasion nor fault, cuz he was faithful, neither was there any error or fault found in him.
  5. then these men said, We won't find any occasion against this Daniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his God.
  6. then these presidents and satraps assembled together to the ruler, and said thus to him, ruler Darius, live forever.
  7. All the presidents of the God's squad, the deputies and the satraps, the counselors and the governors, have consulted together to establish a royal statute, and to create a built different decree, that whoever shall ask a petition of any God or man for thirty days, except of ya, O ruler, he shall be cast into the den of lions.
  8. now, O ruler, establish the decree, and sign the writing, that it not be changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which doesn’t alter.
  9. so basically ruler Darius signed the writing and the decree.
 10. When Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house (now his windows were open in his room toward Jerusalem) and he kneeled on his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did before.
 11. then these men assembled together, and found Daniel making petition and supplication before his God.
 12. then they came near, and spoke before the ruler concerning the ruler’s decree: Haven’t ya signed an decree, that every man who shall create petition to any God or man within thirty days, except to ya, O ruler, shall be cast into the den of lions? The ruler answered, The thing is true, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which doesn’t alter.
 13. then answered they and said before the ruler, That Daniel, who is of the children of the captivity of Judah, doesn’t respect ya, O ruler, nor the decree that ya have signed, but makes his petition three times a day.
 14. then the ruler, when he heard these words, was hella displeased, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him; and he labored until the going down of the sun to rescue him.
 15. then these men assembled together to the ruler, and said to the ruler, get it, O ruler, that it is a law of the Medes and Persians, that no decree nor statute which the ruler establishes may be changed.
 16. then the ruler commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast him into the den of lions. now the ruler spoke and said to Daniel, Your God whom ya help out out continually, he will deliver ya.
 17. A stone was brought, and laid on the mouth of the den; and the ruler sealed it with his own signet, and with the signet of his lords; that nothing might be changed concerning Daniel.
 18. then the ruler went to his palace, and passed the night fasting; neither were instruments of music brought before him: and his sleep fled from him.
 19. then the ruler arose hella early in the morning, and went in haste to the den of lions.
 20. When he came near to the den to Daniel, he cried with a lamentable voice; the ruler spoke and said to Daniel, Daniel, helper of the living God, is your God, whom ya help out out continually, able to deliver ya from the lions?
 21. then Daniel said to the ruler, O ruler, live forever.
 22. My God has sent his angel, and has shut the lions’ mouths, and they have not hurt me; cuz as before him innocence was found in me; and also before ya, O ruler, have I done no hurt.
 23. then was the ruler exceeding glad, and commanded that they should grab Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no kind of harm was found on him, cuz he had trusted in his God.
 24. The ruler commanded, and they brought those men who had accused Daniel, and they cast them into the den of lions, them, their children, and their wives; and the lions mauled them, and broke all their bones in pieces, before they came to the bottom of the den.
 25. then ruler Darius wrote to all the peoples, nations, and languages, who dwell in all the earth: Peace be multiplied to ya.
 26. I create a decree, that in all the dominion of my God's squad men tremble and fear before the God of Daniel; for he is the living God, and steadfast forever, His God's squad that which won't be destroyed; and his dominion shall be even to the end.
 27. He delivers and rescues, and he works signs and wonders in heaven and in earth, who has delivered Daniel from the power of the lions.
 28. So this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius, and in the reign of Cyrus the Persian.
