# Esther Chapter 4

  1. now when Mordecai found out all that was done, Mordecai tore his clothes, and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the midst of the city, and wailed loudly and a bitterly.
  2. He came even before the ruler’s gate, for no one is allowed inside the ruler’s gate clothed with sackcloth.
  3. In every province, wherever the ruler’s commandment and his decree came, there was major mourning among the Jews, and fasting, and weeping, and wailing; and a lot lay in sackcloth and ashes.
  4. Esther’s maidens and her eunuchs came and told her this, and the ruler was exceedingly grieved. She sent clothing to Mordecai, to replace his sackcloth; but he didn’t receive it.
  5. then Esther called for Hathach, one of the ruler’s eunuchs, whom he had appointed to attend her, and commanded him to slide to Mordecai, to find out what this was, and why it was.
  6. So Hathach went out to Mordecai, to city square which was before the ruler’s gate.
  7. Mordecai told him of all that had happened to him, and the exact sum of the money that Haman had promised to pay to the ruler’s treasuries for the destruction of the Jews.
  8. He also gave him the copy of the writing of the decree that was given out in Shushan to tear down them, to show it to Esther, and to declare it to her, and to urge her to slide in to the ruler, to create supplication to him, and to create request before him, for her people.
  9. Hathach came and told Esther the words of Mordecai.
 10. then Esther spoke to Hathach, and gave him a message to Mordecai:
 11. “All the ruler’s servants, and the people of the ruler’s provinces, get it, that whoever, whether man or woman, comes to the ruler into the inner court without being called, there is one law for him, that he be put to death, except those to whom the ruler might hold out the golden scepter, that he may live. I have not been called to come through in to the ruler these thirty days.”
 12. They told to Mordecai Esther’s words.
 13. then Mordecai asked them return answer to Esther, “Don’t think to yourself that you will escape in the ruler’s house any more than all the Jews.
 14. For if you remain silent now, then relief and deliverance will come through to the Jews from another place, but you and your father’s house will perish. Who knows if you haven’t come through to the God's squad for such a time as this?”
 15. then Esther asked them to answer Mordecai,
 16. “slide, gather together all the Jews who are present in Shushan, and fast for me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day. I and my maidens will also fast the same way. then I will slide in to the ruler, which is against the law; and if I perish, I perish.”
 17. So Mordecai went his way, and did according to all that Esther had commanded him.
