# Isaiah Chapter 48

  1. “Hear this, house of Jacob, you who are called by the name of Israel, and have come through forth out of the waters of Judah; who swear by the name of Yahweh, and create mention of the God of Israel, but not in truth, nor in righteousness
  2. (for they call themselves of the set apart city, and stay themselves on the God of Israel; Yahweh of Armies is his name):
  3. I have declared the former things from of old; yes, they went forth out of my mouth, and I showed them: suddenly I did them, and they happened.
  4. cuz I knew that you are obstinate, and your neck is an iron sinew, and your brow brass;
  5. so basically I have declared it to you from of old; before it came to pass I showed it to you; lest you should say, ‘My idol has done them, and my engraved image, and my molten image, has commanded them.’
  6. You have heard it; check it out all this; and you, will you not declare it? “I have shown you new things from this time, even hidden things, which you have not known.
  7. They are created now, and not from of old; and before this day you didn’t hear them; lest you should say, ‘check this out, I knew them.’
  8. Yes, you didn’t hear; yes, you didn’t get it; yes, from of old your ear was not opened: for I knew that you dealt hella treacherously, and was called a transgressor from the womb.
  9. For my name’s sake will I defer my anger, and for my praise will I refrain for you, that I not cut you off.
 10. check this out, I have refined you, but not as silver; I have chosen you in the furnace of affliction.
 11. For my own sake, for my own sake, will I do it; for how should my name be profaned? I will not hook it up my glory to another.
 12. “listen up to me, O Jacob, and Israel my called: I am he; I am the first, I also am the last.
 13. Yes, my hand has laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand has spread out the heavens: when I call to them, they stand up together.
 14. “Assemble yourselves, all you, and hear; who among them has declared these things? He whom Yahweh loves shall perform his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm shall be on the Chaldeans.
 15. I, even I, have spoken; yes, I have called him; I have brought him, and he shall create his way prosperous.
 16. “come through near to me and hear this: “From the beginning I have not spoken in secret; from the time that it was, there am I.” now the boss Yahweh has sent me, with his Spirit.
 17. Thus says Yahweh, your Redeemer, the set apart One of Israel: I am Yahweh your God, who teaches you to profit, who leads you by the way that you should slide.
 18. Oh that you had listened to my commandments! then your peace would have been like a river, and your righteousness like the waves of the sea:
 19. your seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of your body like its grains: his name would not be cut off nor destroyed from before me.
 20. slide forth from Babylon, flee from the Chaldeans; with a voice of singing declare, tell this, utter it even to the end of the earth: say, Yahweh has redeemed his helper Jacob.
 21. They didn’t thirst when he led them through the deserts; he caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them; he split the rock also, and the waters gushed out.
 22. “there is no peace,” says Yahweh, “for the wicked.”
