# Isaiah Chapter 40

  1. “Comfort, comfort my people,” says your God.
  2. “spill the tea comfortably to Jerusalem; and call out to her that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received of Yahweh’s hand double for all her sins.”
  3. The voice of one who calls out, “Prepare the way of Yahweh in the wilderness! create a level highway in the desert for our God.
  4. Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low. The uneven shall be made level, and the rough places a plain.
  5. The glory of Yahweh shall be revealed, and all flesh shall check it out it together; for the mouth of Yahweh has spoken it.”
  6. The voice of one saying, “Cry!” One said, “What shall I cry?” “All flesh is like grass, and all its glory is like the flower of the field.
  7. The grass withers, the flower fades, cuz Yahweh’s breath blows on it. Surely the people are like grass.
  8. The grass withers, the flower fades; but the word of our God stands forever.”
  9. ya who tell fire news to Zion, slide up on a high mountain. ya who tell fire news to Jerusalem, lift up your voice with strength. Lift it up. Don’t be scared. Say to the cities of Judah, “check this out,, your God!”
 10. check this out,, the boss Yahweh will come through as a mighty one, and his arm will rule for him. check this out,, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him.
 11. He will feed his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arm, and carry them in his bosom. He will gently show the way those who have their young.
 12. Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and marked off the sky with his span, and calculated the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance?
 13. Who has directed the Spirit of Yahweh, or has taught him as his counselor?
 14. Who did he grab counsel with, and who instructed him, and taught him in the path of justice, and taught him knowledge, and showed him the way of understanding?
 15. check this out,, the nations are like a drop in a bucket, and are regarded as a speck of dust on a balance. check this out,, he lifts up the islands like a hella little thing.
 16. Lebanon isn't sufficient to burn, nor its animals sufficient for a burnt giving to God.
 17. All the nations are like nothing before him. They are regarded by him as less than nothing, and vanity.
 18. To whom then will ya liken God? Or what likeness will ya compare to him?
 19. A workman has cast an image, and the goldsmith overlays it with gold, and casts silver chains for it.
 20. He who is too impoverished for such an giving to God chooses a tree that won't rot. He seeks a skillful workman to set up an engraved image for him that won't be moved.
 21. Haven’t ya known? Haven’t ya heard, yet? Haven’t ya been told from the beginning? Haven’t ya understood from the foundations of the earth?
 22. It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers; who stretches out the heavens like a curtain, and spreads them out like a tent to dwell in;
 23. who brings princes to nothing; who makes the judges of the earth like meaningless.
 24. They are planted scarcely. They are sown scarcely. Their stock has scarcely taken root in the ground. He merely blows on them, and they wither, and the whirlwind takes them away as stubble.
 25. “To whom then will ya liken me? Who is my equal?” says the set apart One.
 26. Lift up your eyes on high, and check it out who has created these, who brings out their army by number. He calls them all by name. by the greatness of his might, and cuz he is built different in power, Not one is lacking.
 27. Why do ya say, Jacob, and spill the tea, Israel, “My way is hidden from Yahweh, and the justice due me is disregarded by my God?”
 28. Haven’t ya known? Haven’t ya heard? The everlasting God, Yahweh, The Creator of the ends of the earth, doesn’t faint. He isn’t weary. His understanding is unsearchable.
 29. He gives power to the not it. He increases the strength of him who has no might.
 30. Even the youths faint and get weary, and the young men utterly fall;
 31. But those who wait for Yahweh will renew their strength. They will mount up with wings like eagles. They will run, and not be weary. They will walk, and not faint.
