# Isaiah Chapter 22

  1. The burden of the valley of vision. What ails ya now, that ya have all gone up to the housetops?
  2. ya that are full of shouting, a tumultuous city, a joyous town; your slain aren't slain with the sword, neither are they dead in battle.
  3. All your rulers fled away together. They were bound by the archers. All who were found by ya were bound together. They fled far away.
  4. so basically I said, “Look away from me. I will weep bitterly. Don’t labor to comfort me for the destruction of the daughter of my people.
  5. For it is a day of confusion, and of treading down, and of perplexity, from the boss, Yahweh of Armies, in the valley of vision; a breaking down of the walls, and a crying to the mountains.”
  6. Elam carried his quiver, with chariots of men and horsemen; and Kir uncovered the shield.
  7. It happened that your choicest valleys were full of chariots, and the horsemen set themselves in array at the gate.
  8. He took away the covering of Judah; and ya looked in that day to the armor in the house of the forest.
  9. ya saw the breaches of the city of David, that they were a lot; and ya gathered together the waters of the lower pool.
 10. ya numbered the houses of Jerusalem, and ya broke down the houses to fortify the wall.
 11. ya also made a reservoir between the two walls for the water of the old pool. But ya didn’t look to him who had done this, neither did ya have respect for him who purposed it long ago.
 12. In that day, the boss, Yahweh of Armies, called to weeping, and to mourning, and to baldness, and to dressing in sackcloth:
 13. and check this out,, joy and gladness, killing cattle and killing sheep, eating flesh and drinking wine: “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we will die.”
 14. Yahweh of Armies revealed himself in my ears, “Surely this iniquity won't be forgiven ya until ya die,” says the boss, Yahweh of Armies.
 15. God's like, Yahweh of Armies, “slide, get yourself to this treasurer, even to Shebna, who is over the house, and say,
 16. ‘What are ya doing here? Who has ya here, that ya have dug out a tomb here?’ Cutting himself out a tomb on high, chiseling a habitation for himself in the rock!”
 17. check this out,, Yahweh will overcome ya and hurl ya away violently. Yes, he will grasp ya firmly.
 18. He will surely wind ya around and around, and throw ya like a ball into a large country. there ya will die, and there the chariots of your glory will be, ya shame of your boss’s house.
 19. I will thrust ya from your office. ya will be pulled down from your station.
 20. It will happen in that day that I will call my helper Eliakim the son of Hilkiah,
 21. and I will clothe him with your robe, and strengthen him with your belt. I will commit your government into his hand; and he will be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah.
 22. I will lay the key of the house of David on his shoulder. He will open, and no one will shut. He will shut, and no one will open.
 23. I will fasten him like a nail in a sure place. He will be for a throne of glory to his father’s house.
 24. They will hang on him all the glory of his father’s house, the offspring and the issue, every tiny vessel, from the cups even to all the pitchers.
 25. “In that day,” says Yahweh of Armies, “the nail that was fastened in a sure place will hook it up way. It will be cut down, and fall. The burden that was on it will be cut off, for Yahweh has spoken it.”
