# Isaiah Chapter 38

  1. In those days was Hezekiah sick and near death. Isaiah the God's messenger, the son of Amoz, came to him, and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Set your house in order, for you will die, and not live.’”
  2. then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to Yahweh,
  3. and said, “Remember now, Yahweh, I beg you, how I have walked before you in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is fire in your sight.” Hezekiah wept bitterly.
  4. then the word of Yahweh came to Isaiah, saying,
  5. “slide, and tell Hezekiah, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of David your father, “I have heard your talking to God. I have seen your tears. check this out, I will add fifteen years to your life.
  6. I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the ruler of Assyria, and I will defend this city.
  7. This shall be the sign to you from Yahweh, that Yahweh will do this thing that he has spoken.
  8. check this out, I will cause the shadow on the sundial, which has gone down on the sundial of Ahaz with the sun, to return backward ten steps. So the sun returned ten steps on the sundial on which it had gone down.”’”
  9. The writing of Hezekiah ruler of Judah, when he had been sick, and had recovered of his sickness.
 10. I said, “In the middle of my life I slide into the gates of Sheol. I am deprived of the residue of my years.”
 11. I said, “I won’t check it out Yah, Yah in the land of the living. I will check it out man no more with the inhabitants of the world.
 12. My dwelling is removed, and is carried away from me like a shepherd’s tent. I have rolled up, like a weaver, my life. He will cut me off from the loom. From day even to night you will create an end of me.
 13. I waited patiently until morning. He breaks all my bones like a lion. From day even to night you will create an end of me.
 14. I chattered like a swallow or a crane. I moaned like a dove. My eyes weaken looking upward. boss, I am oppressed. Be my security.”
 15. What will I say? He has both spoken to me, and himself has done it. I will walk carefully all my years cuz of the anguish of my soul.
 16. boss, men live by these things; and my spirit finds life in all of them: you restore me, and cause me to live.
 17. check this out, for peace I had major anguish, but you have in show love for my soul delivered it from the pit of corruption; for you have cast all my sins behind your back.
 18. For Sheol can’t praise you. Death can’t celebrate you. Those who slide down into the pit can’t hope for your truth.
 19. The living, the living, he shall praise you, as I do this day. The father shall create known your truth to the children.
 20. Yahweh will rescue me. so basically we will sing my songs with stringed instruments all the days of our life in the house of Yahweh.
 21. now Isaiah had said, “Let them grab a cake of figs, and lay it for a poultice on the boil, and he shall recover.”
 22. Hezekiah also had said, “What is the sign that I will slide up to the house of Yahweh?”
