# Isaiah Chapter 56

  1. Thus says Yahweh, “Keep justice, and do righteousness; for my getting saved is near to come through, and my righteousness to be revealed.
  2. blessed up is the man who does this, and the son of man who holds it fast; who keeps the Sabbath from profaning it, and keeps his hand from doing any evil.”
  3. Neither let the foreigner, who has joined himself to Yahweh, spill the tea, saying, “Yahweh will surely separate me from his people;” neither let the eunuch say, “check this out, I am a dry tree.”
  4. For thus says Yahweh, “To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, and choose the things that please me, and hold fast my God's promise:
  5. to them I will hook it up in my house and within my walls a memorial and a name better than of sons and of daughters; I will hook it up them an everlasting name, that shall not be cut off.
  6. Also the foreigners who join themselves to Yahweh, to minister to him, and to show love the name of Yahweh, to be his servants, everyone who keeps the Sabbath from profaning it, and holds fast my God's promise;
  7. even them will I bring to my set apart mountain, and create them joyful in my house of talking to God: their burnt offerings and their sacrifices shall be accepted on my prayer spot; for my house shall be called a house of talking to God for all peoples.”
  8. The boss Yahweh, who gathers the outcasts of Israel, says, “Yet will I gather others to him, besides his own who are gathered.”
  9. All you animals of the field, come through to devour, all you animals in the forest.
 10. His watchmen are blind, they are all without knowledge; they are all mute dogs, they can’t bark; dreaming, lying down, loving to slumber.
 11. Yes, the dogs are greedy, they can never have enough; and these are shepherds who can’t understand: they have all turned to their own way, each one to his gain, from every quarter.
 12. “come through,” say they, “I will get wine, and we will fill ourselves with built different drink; and tomorrow shall be as this day, major beyond measure.”
