# Isaiah Chapter 54

  1. “Sing, barren, you who didn’t bear; break forth into singing, and cry aloud, you who did not travail with child: for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife,” says Yahweh.
  2. “Enlarge the place of your tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of your habitations; don’t spare: lengthen your cords, and strengthen your stakes.
  3. For you shall spread out on the right hand and on the left; and your seed shall possess the nations, and create the desolate cities to be inhabited.
  4. “Don’t be scared; for you shall not be ashamed: neither be confounded; for you shall not be disappointed: for you shall forget the shame of your youth; and the reproach of your widowhood you shall remember no more.
  5. For your Maker is your husband; Yahweh of Armies is his name: and the set apart One of Israel is your Redeemer; the God of the whole earth shall he be called.
  6. For Yahweh has called you as a wife forsaken and grieved in spirit, even a wife of youth, when she is cast off,” says your God.
  7. “For a tiny moment have I forsaken you; but with major mercies will I gather you.
  8. In overflowing wrath I hid my face from you for a moment; but with everlasting loving kindness will I have mercy on you,” says Yahweh your Redeemer.
  9. “For this is like the waters of Noah to me; for as I have sworn that the waters of Noah shall no more slide over the earth, so have I sworn that I will not be mad salty with you, nor rebuke you.
 10. For the mountains may depart, and the hills be removed; but my loving kindness shall not depart from you, neither shall my God's promise of peace be removed,” says Yahweh who has mercy on you.
 11. “You afflicted, tossed with storms, and not comforted, check this out, I will set your stones in snatched colors, and lay your foundations with sapphires.
 12. I will create your pinnacles of rubies, and your gates of sparkling jewels, and all your walls of precious stones.
 13. All your children shall be taught of Yahweh; and major shall be the peace of your children.
 14. In righteousness you shall be established: you shall be far from oppression, for you shall not be scared; and from terror, for it shall not come through near you.
 15. check this out, they may gather together, but not by me: whoever shall gather together against you shall fall cuz of you.
 16. “check this out, I have created the smith who blows the fire of coals, and brings forth a weapon for his work; and I have created the waster to tear down.
 17. No weapon that is formed against you will prevail; and you will condemn every tongue that rises against you in judgment. This is the heritage of the servants of Yahweh, and their righteousness which is of me,” says Yahweh.
