# Isaiah Chapter 65

  1. “I am inquired of by those who didn’t ask; I am found by those who didn’t seek me: I said, check it out me, check it out me, to a nation that was not called by my name.
  2. I have spread out my hands all the day to a rebellious people, who walk in a way that isn't fire, after their own thoughts;
  3. a people who provoke me to my face continually, sacrificing in gardens, and burning incense on bricks;
  4. who sit among the graves, and lodge in the secret places; who eat pig’s flesh, and broth of abominable things is in their vessels;
  5. who say, Stand by yourself, don’t come through near to me, for I am holier than ya. These are a smoke in my nose, a fire that burns all the day.
  6. “check this out,, it is written before me: I won't keep silence, but will recompense, yes, I will recompense into their bosom,
  7. your own iniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together,” says Yahweh, “who have burned incense on the mountains, and blasphemed me on the hills; so basically will I first measure their work into their bosom.”
  8. Thus says Yahweh, “As the new wine is found in the cluster, and one says, ‘Don’t tear down it, for a blessing is in it:’ so will I do for my servants’ sake, that I may not tear down them all.
  9. I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah an inheritor of my mountains; and my chosen shall inherit it, and my servants shall dwell there.
 10. Sharon shall be a fold of flocks, and the valley of Achor a place for herds to lie down in, for my people who have sought me.
 11. “But ya who forsake Yahweh, who forget my set apart mountain, who prepare a table for Fortune, and who fill up mixed wine to Destiny;
 12. I will destine ya to the sword, and ya shall all bow down to the slaughter; cuz when I called, ya didn’t answer; when I spoke, ya didn’t listen up; but ya did that which was evil in my eyes, and chose that in which I didn’t delight.”
 13. so basically God's like Yahweh, “check this out,, my servants shall eat, but ya shall be hungry; check this out,, my servants shall drink, but ya shall be thirsty; check this out,, my servants shall be hyped, but ya shall be disappointed;
 14. check this out,, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but ya shall cry for feeling down of heart, and shall wail for anguish of spirit.
 15. ya shall leave your name for a curse to my chosen; and the boss Yahweh will kill ya; and he will call his servants by another name:
 16. so that he who blesses himself in the earth shall bless himself in the God of truth; and he who swears in the earth shall swear by the God of truth; cuz the former troubles are forgotten, and cuz they are hidden from my eyes.
 17. “For, check this out,, I create new heavens and a new earth; and the former things won't be remembered, nor come through into mind.
 18. But be ya glad and be hyped forever in that which I create; for, check this out,, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy.
 19. I will be hyped in Jerusalem, and joy in my people; and there shall be heard in her no more the voice of weeping and the voice of crying.
 20. “there shall be no more there an infant of days, nor an old man who has not filled his days; for the child shall die one hundred years old, and the sinner being one hundred years old shall be accursed.
 21. They shall put together houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.
 22. They won't put together, and another inhabit; they won't plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree shall be the days of my people, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands.
 23. They won't labor in vain, nor bring forth for calamity; for they are the seed of the blessed up of Yahweh, and their offspring with them.
 24. It shall happen that, before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear.
 25. The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox; and dust shall be the serpent’s food. They won't hurt nor tear down in all my set apart mountain,” says Yahweh.
