# Isaiah Chapter 63

  1. Who is this who comes from Edom, with dyed garments from Bozrah? this who is glorious in his clothing, marching in the greatness of his strength? “It is I who spill the tea in righteousness, mighty to rescue.”
  2. Why are ya red in your clothing, and your garments like him who treads in the wine vat?
  3. “I have trodden the winepress alone; and of the peoples there was no man with me: yes, I trod them in my anger, and trampled them in my wrath; and their lifeblood is sprinkled on my garments, and I have stained all my clothing.
  4. For the day of vengeance was in my heart, and the year of my redeemed has come through.
  5. I looked, and there was none to help out; and I wondered that there was none to uphold: so basically my own arm brought getting saved to me; and my wrath, it upheld me.
  6. I trod down the peoples in my anger, and made them drunk in my wrath, and I poured out their lifeblood on the earth.”
  7. I will create mention of the loving kindnesses of Yahweh and the praises of Yahweh, according to all that Yahweh has bestowed on us, and the major goodness toward the house of Israel, which he has bestowed on them according to his mercies, and according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses.
  8. For he said, “Surely, they are my people, children who won't deal falsely:” so he was their Savior.
  9. In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them: in his show love and in his pity he redeemed them; and he bore them, and carried them all the days of old.
 10. But they rebelled, and grieved his set apart Spirit: so basically he was turned to be their enemy, and he himself fought against them.
 11. then he remembered the days of old, Moses and his people, saying, Where is he who brought them up out of the sea with the shepherds of his flock? where is he who put his set apart Spirit in their midst?
 12. who caused his glorious arm to slide at the right hand of Moses? who divided the waters before them, to create himself an everlasting name?
 13. who led them through the depths, as a horse in the wilderness, so that they didn’t stumble?
 14. As the livestock that slide down into the valley, the Spirit of Yahweh caused them to rest; so ya led your people, to create yourself a glorious name.
 15. Look down from heaven, and check it out from the habitation of your holiness and of your glory: where are your zeal and your mighty acts? the yearning of your heart and your compassion is restrained toward me.
 16. For ya are our Father, though Abraham doesn’t get it us, and Israel does not acknowledge us: ya, Yahweh, are our Father; our Redeemer from everlasting is your name.
 17. O Yahweh, why do ya create us to err from your ways, and harden our heart from your fear? Return for your servants’ sake, the tribes of your inheritance.
 18. Your set apart people possessed it but a little while: our adversaries have trodden down your sanctuary.
 19. We have become as they over whom ya never bear rule, as those who were not called by your name.
