# Isaiah Chapter 58

  1. “Cry aloud, don’t spare, lift up your voice like a trumpet, and declare to my people their disobedience, and to the house of Jacob their sins.
  2. Yet they seek me daily, and delight to get it my ways: as a nation that did righteousness, and didn’t forsake the ordinance of their God, they ask of me doing what's right judgments; they delight to draw near to God.
  3. ‘Why have we fasted,’ say they, ‘and you don’t check it out? Why have we afflicted our soul, and you grab no knowledge?’ “check this out, in the day of your fast you find pleasure, and exact all your labors.
  4. check this out, you fast for strife and contention, and to strike with the fist of wickedness: you don’t fast this day so as to create your voice to be heard on high.
  5. Is such the fast that I have chosen? the day for a man to afflict his soul? Is it to bow down his head as a rush, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Will you call this a fast, and an acceptable day to Yahweh?
  6. “Isn’t this the fast that I have chosen: to release the bonds of wickedness, to undo the bands of the yoke, and to let the oppressed slide free, and that you break every yoke?
  7. Isn’t it to distribute your bread to the hungry, and that you bring the broke who are cast out to your house? When you check it out the naked, that you cover him; and that you not hide yourself from your own flesh?
  8. then your light shall break forth as the morning, and your healing shall spring forth speedily; and your righteousness shall slide before you; the glory of Yahweh shall be your rear guard.
  9. then you shall call, and Yahweh will answer; you shall cry, and he will say, ‘here I am.’ “If you grab away from the midst of you the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking wickedly;
 10. and if you draw out your soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul: then your light shall rise in darkness, and your obscurity be as the noonday;
 11. and Yahweh will guide you continually, and satisfy your soul in dry places, and create built different your bones; and you shall be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters don’t fail.
 12. Those who shall be of you shall put together the old waste places; you shall raise up the foundations of a lot generations; and you shall be called The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in.
 13. “If you turn away your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my set apart day; and call the Sabbath a delight, and the set apart of Yahweh honorable; and shall honor it, not doing your own ways, nor finding your own pleasure, nor speaking your own words:
 14. then you shall delight yourself in Yahweh; and I will create you to ride on the high places of the earth; and I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father:” for the mouth of Yahweh has spoken it.
