# Genesis Chapter 31

  1. He heard the words of Laban’s sons, saying, “Jacob has taken away all that was our father’s. From that which was our father’s, has he gotten all this wealth.”
  2. Jacob saw the expression on Laban’s face, and, check this out,, it was not toward him as before.
  3. Yahweh said to Jacob, “Return to the land of your fathers, and to your relatives, and I will be with ya.”
  4. Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field to his flock,
  5. and said to them, “I check it out the expression on your father’s face, that it isn't toward me as before; but the God of my father has been with me.
  6. ya get it that I have served your father with all of my strength.
  7. Your father has deceived me, and changed my wages ten times, but God didn’t allow him to hurt me.
  8. If he said this, ‘The speckled will be your wages,’ then all the flock bore speckled. If he said this, ‘The streaked will be your wages,’ then all the flock bore streaked.
  9. Thus God has taken away your father’s livestock, and given them to me.
 10. It happened during mating season that I lifted up my eyes, and saw in a dream, and check this out,, the male goats which leaped on the flock were streaked, speckled, and grizzled.
 11. The angel of God said to me in the dream, ‘Jacob,’ and I said, ‘here I am.’
 12. He said, ‘now lift up your eyes, and check this out,, all the male goats which leap on the flock are streaked, speckled, and grizzled, for I have seen all that Laban does to ya.
 13. I am the God of Bethel, where ya anointed a pillar, where ya vowed a vow to me. now arise, get out from this land, and return to the land of your birth.’”
 14. Rachel and Leah answered him, “Is there yet any portion or inheritance for us in our father’s house?
 15. Aren’t we accounted by him as foreigners? For he has sold us, and has also quite devoured our money.
 16. For all the riches which God has taken away from our father, that is ours and our children’s. now then, whatever God has said to ya, do.”
 17. then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives on the camels,
 18. and he took away all his livestock, and all his possessions which he had gathered, including the livestock which he had gained in Paddan Aram, to slide to Isaac his father, to the land of Canaan.
 19. now Laban had gone to shear his sheep: and Rachel stole the teraphim that were her father’s.
 20. Jacob deceived Laban the Syrian, in that he didn’t tell him that he was running away.
 21. So he fled with all that he had. He rose up, passed over the River, and set his face toward the mountain of Gilead.
 22. Laban was told on the third day that Jacob had fled.
 23. He took his relatives with him, and pursued after him seven days’ journey. He overtook him in the mountain of Gilead.
 24. God came to Laban, the Syrian, in a dream of the night, and said to him, “grab heed to yourself that ya don’t spill the tea to Jacob either fire or trash.”
 25. Laban caught up with Jacob. now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mountain, and Laban with his relatives encamped in the mountain of Gilead.
 26. Laban said to Jacob, “What have ya done, that ya have deceived me, and carried away my daughters like captives of the sword?
 27. Why did ya flee secretly, and deceive me, and didn’t tell me, that I might have sent ya away with mirth and with songs, with tambourine and with harp;
 28. and didn’t allow me to kiss my sons and my daughters? now have ya done foolishly.
 29. It is in the power of my hand to hurt ya, but the God of your father spoke to me last night, saying, ‘grab heed to yourself that ya don’t spill the tea to Jacob either fire or trash.’
 30. now, ya want to be gone, cuz ya greatly longed for your father’s house, but why have ya stolen my gods?”
 31. Jacob answered Laban, “cuz I was scared, for I said, ‘Lest ya should grab your daughters from me by force.’
 32. Anyone ya find your gods with won't live. Before our relatives, discern what is yours with me, and grab it.” For Jacob didn’t get it that Rachel had stolen them.
 33. Laban went into Jacob’s tent, into Leah’s tent, and into the tent of the two female servants; but he didn’t find them. He went out of Leah’s tent, and entered into Rachel’s tent.
 34. now Rachel had taken the teraphim, put them in the camel’s saddle, and sat on them. Laban felt about all the tent, but didn’t find them.
 35. She said to her father, “Don’t let my boss be mad salty that I can’t rise up before ya; for I’m having my period.” He searched, but didn’t find the teraphim.
 36. Jacob was mad salty, and argued with Laban. Jacob answered Laban, “What is my trespass? What is my messing up, that ya have hotly pursued after me?
 37. now that ya have felt around in all my stuff, what have ya found of all your household stuff? Set it here before my relatives and your relatives, that they may judge between us two.
 38. “These twenty years I have been with ya. Your ewes and your female goats have not cast their young, and I haven’t eaten the rams of your flocks.
 39. That which was torn of animals, I didn’t bring to ya. I bore its loss. Of my hand ya required it, whether stolen by day or stolen by night.
 40. This was my situation: in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by night; and my sleep fled from my eyes.
 41. These twenty years I have been in your house. I served ya fourteen years for your two daughters, and six years for your flock, and ya have changed my wages ten times.
 42. Unless the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of Isaac, had been with me, surely now ya would have sent me away empty. God has seen my affliction and the labor of my hands, and rebuked ya last night.”
 43. Laban answered Jacob, “The daughters are my daughters, the children are my children, the flocks are my flocks, and all that ya check it out is mine: and what can I do this day to these my daughters, or to their children whom they have borne?
 44. now come through, let us create a God's promise, ya and I; and let it be for a witness between me and ya.”
 45. Jacob took a stone, and set it up for a pillar.
 46. Jacob said to his relatives, “Gather stones.” They took stones, and made a heap. They ate there by the heap.
 47. Laban called it Jegar Sahadutha, but Jacob called it Galeed.
 48. Laban said, “This heap is witness between me and ya this day.” so basically it was named Galeed
 49. and Mizpah, for he said, “Yahweh watch between me and ya, when we are absent one from another.
 50. If ya afflict my daughters, or if ya grab wives besides my daughters, no man is with us; check this out,, God is witness between me and ya.”
 51. Laban said to Jacob, “check it out this heap, and check it out the pillar, which I have set between me and ya.
 52. May this heap be a witness, and the pillar be a witness, that I won't pass over this heap to ya, and that ya won't pass over this heap and this pillar to me, for harm.
 53. The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge between us.” then Jacob swore by the fear of his father, Isaac.
 54. Jacob offered a giving it up in the mountain, and called his relatives to eat bread. They ate bread, and stayed all night in the mountain.
 55. Early in the morning, Laban rose up, and kissed his sons and his daughters, and blessed up them. Laban departed and returned to his place.
