# Genesis Chapter 12

  1. now Yahweh said to Abram, “Get out of your country, and from your relatives, and from your father’s house, to the land that I will show you.
  2. I will create of you a major nation. I will bless you and create your name major. You will be a blessing.
  3. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you. All of the families of the earth will be blessed up in you.”
  4. So Abram went, as Yahweh had spoken to him. Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed out of Haran.
  5. Abram took Sarai his wife, Lot his brother’s son, all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls whom they had gotten in Haran, and they went to slide into the land of Canaan. Into the land of Canaan they came.
  6. Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem, to the oak of Moreh. The Canaanite was then in the land.
  7. Yahweh appeared to Abram and said, “I will hook it up this land to your seed.” He built an prayer spot there to Yahweh, who appeared to him.
  8. He left from there to the mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Ai on the east. there he built an prayer spot to Yahweh and called on the name of Yahweh.
  9. Abram traveled, going on still toward the South.
 10. there was a famine in the land. Abram went down into Egypt to live as a foreigner there, for the famine was severe in the land.
 11. It happened, when he had come through near to enter Egypt, that he said to Sarai his wife, “check it out now, I get it that you are a snatched woman to look at.
 12. It will happen, when the Egyptians will check it out you, that they will say, ‘This is his wife.’ They will kill me, but they will rescue you alive.
 13. Please say that you are my sister, that it may be well with me for your sake, and that my soul may live cuz of you.”
 14. It happened that when Abram had come through into Egypt, the Egyptians checked out that the woman was hella snatched.
 15. The princes of Pharaoh checked out her, and praised her to Pharaoh; and the woman was taken into Pharaoh’s house.
 16. He dealt well with Abram for her sake. He had sheep, cattle, male donkeys, male servants, female servants, female donkeys, and camels.
 17. Yahweh plagued Pharaoh and his house with major plagues cuz of Sarai, Abram’s wife.
 18. Pharaoh called Abram and said, “What is this that you have done to me? Why didn’t you tell me that she was your wife?
 19. Why did you say, ‘She is my sister,’ so that I took her to be my wife? now so basically, check it out your wife, grab her, and slide your way.”
 20. Pharaoh commanded men concerning him, and they brought him on the way with his wife and all that he had.
