# Genesis Chapter 43

  1. The famine was severe in the land.
  2. It happened, when they had eaten up the grain which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said to them, “slide again, buy us a little more food.”
  3. Judah spoke to him, saying, “The man solemnly warned us, saying, ‘ya won't check it out my face, unless your fam bro is with ya.’
  4. If ya’ll send our fam bro with us, we’ll slide down and buy ya food,
  5. but if ya’ll not send him, we’ll not slide down, for the man said to us, ‘ya won't check it out my face, unless your fam bro is with ya.’”
  6. Israel said, “Why did ya treat me so badly, telling the man that ya had another fam bro?”
  7. They said, “The man asked directly concerning ourselves, and concerning our relatives, saying, ‘Is your father still alive? Have ya another fam bro?’ We just answered his questions. Is there any way we could get it that he would say, ‘Bring your fam bro down?’”
  8. Judah said to Israel, his father, “Send the boy with me, and we’ll get up and slide, so that we may live, and not die, both we, and ya, and also our little ones.
  9. I’ll be collateral for him. From my hand will ya require him. If I don’t bring him to ya, and set him before ya, then let me bear the blame forever,
 10. for if we hadn’t delayed, surely we would have returned a second time by now.”
 11. Their father, Israel, said to them, “If it must be so, then do this. grab from the choice fruits of the land in your bags, and carry down a present for the man, a little balm, a little honey, spices and myrrh, nuts, and almonds;
 12. and grab double money in your hand, and grab back the money that was returned in the mouth of your sacks. Perhaps it was an oversight.
 13. grab your fam bro also, get up, and return to the man.
 14. May God Almighty hook it up ya mercy before the man, that he may release to ya your other fam bro and Benjamin. If I am bereaved of my children, I am bereaved.”
 15. The men took that present, and they took double money in their hand, and Benjamin; and got up, went down to Egypt, and stood before Joseph.
 16. When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the steward of his house, “Bring the men into the house, and butcher an animal, and prepare; for the men will dine with me at noon.”
 17. The man did as Joseph commanded, and the man brought the men to Joseph’s house.
 18. The men were scared, cuz they were brought to Joseph’s house; and they said, “cuz of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time, we’re brought in; that he may seek occasion against us, attack us, and seize us as slaves, along with our donkeys.”
 19. They came near to the steward of Joseph’s house, and they spoke to him at the door of the house,
 20. and said, “Oh, my boss, we facts came down the first time to buy food.
 21. When we came to the lodging place, we opened our sacks, and check this out,, each man’s money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight. We have brought it back in our hand.
 22. We have brought down other money in our hand to buy food. We don’t get it who put our money in our sacks.”
 23. He said, “Peace be to ya. Don’t be scared. Your God, and the God of your father, has given ya treasure in your sacks. I received your money.” He brought Simeon out to them.
 24. The man brought the men into Joseph’s house, and gave them water, and they washed their feet. He gave their donkeys fodder.
 25. They prepared the present for Joseph’s coming at noon, for they heard that they should eat bread there.
 26. When Joseph came home, they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves down to him to the earth.
 27. He asked them of their welfare, and said, “Is your father well, the old man of whom ya spoke? Is he yet alive?”
 28. They said, “Your helper, our father, is well. He is still alive.” They bowed down humbly.
 29. He lifted up his eyes, and saw Benjamin, his fam bro, his mother’s son, and said, “Is this your youngest fam bro, of whom ya spoke to me?” He said, “God be gracious to ya, my son.”
 30. Joseph hurried, for his heart yearned over his fam bro; and he sought a place to weep. He entered into his room, and wept there.
 31. He washed his face, and came out. He controlled himself, and said, “help out out the meal.”
 32. They served him by himself, and them by themselves, and the Egyptians, that ate with him, by themselves, cuz the Egyptians don’t eat bread with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination to the Egyptians.
 33. They sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth, and the men marveled one with another.
 34. He sent portions to them from before him, but Benjamin’s portion was five times as much as any of theirs. They drank, and were merry with him.
