# Genesis Chapter 20

  1. Abraham traveled from there toward the land of the South, and lived between Kadesh and Shur. He lived as a foreigner in Gerar.
  2. Abraham said about Sarah his wife, “She is my sister.” Abimelech ruler of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
  3. But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night, and said to him, “check this out,, ya are a dead man, cuz of the woman whom ya have taken. For she is a man’s wife.”
  4. now Abimelech had not come through near her. He said, “boss, will ya kill even a doing what's right nation?
  5. Didn’t he tell me, ‘She is my sister?’ She, even she herself, said, ‘He is my fam bro.’ In the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands have I done this.”
  6. God said to him in the dream, “Yes, I get it that in the integrity of your heart ya have done this, and I also withheld ya from sinning against me. so basically I didn’t allow ya to touch her.
  7. now so basically, restore the man’s wife. For he is a God's messenger, and he will pray for ya, and ya will live. If ya don’t restore her, get it for sure that ya will die, ya, and all who are yours.”
  8. Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ear. The men were hella scared.
  9. then Abimelech called Abraham, and said to him, “What have ya done to us? How have I sinned against ya, that ya have brought on me and on my God's squad a major messing up? ya have done deeds to me that ought not to be done!”
 10. Abimelech said to Abraham, “What did ya check it out, that ya have done this thing?”
 11. Abraham said, “cuz I thought, ‘Surely the fear of God isn't in this place. They will kill me for my wife’s sake.’
 12. Besides, she is facts my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.
 13. It happened, when God caused me to wander from my father’s house, that I said to her, ‘This is your kindness which ya shall show to me. Everywhere that we slide, say of me, “He is my fam bro.”’”
 14. Abimelech took sheep and cattle, male servants and female servants, and gave them to Abraham, and restored Sarah, his wife, to him.
 15. Abimelech said, “check this out,, my land is before ya. Dwell where it pleases ya.”
 16. To Sarah he said, “check this out,, I have given your fam bro a thousand pieces of silver. check this out,, it is for ya a covering of the eyes to all that are with ya. In front of all ya are vindicated.”
 17. Abraham prayed to God. God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his female servants, and they bore children.
 18. For Yahweh had closed up tight all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, cuz of Sarah, Abraham’s wife.
