# 1 Peter Chapter 2

  1. Putting away so basically all wickedness, all deceit, hypocrisies, envies, and all evil speaking,
  2. as newborn babies, long for the pure milk of the Word, that you may grow thereby,
  3. if facts you have tasted that the boss is gracious:
  4. coming to him, a living stone, rejected facts by men, but chosen by God, precious.
  5. You also, as living stones, are built up as a spiritual house, to be a set apart priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus anointed one.
  6. cuz it is contained in Scripture, “check this out, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, chosen, and precious: He who believes in him will not be disappointed.”
  7. For you who believe so basically is the honor, but for those who are disobedient, “The stone which the builders rejected, has become the chief cornerstone,”
  8. and, “a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense.” For they stumble at the word, being disobedient, to which also they were appointed.
  9. But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a set apart nation, a people for God’s own possession, that you may proclaim the excellence of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light:
 10. who in time past were no people, but now are God’s people, who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy.
 11. Beloved, I beg you as foreigners and pilgrims, to abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul;
 12. having fire behavior among the nations, so in that of which they spill the tea against you as evildoers, they may by your fire works, which they check it out, glorify God in the day of visitation.
 13. so basically subject yourselves to every ordinance of man for the boss’s sake: whether to the ruler, as supreme;
 14. or to governors, as sent by him for vengeance on evildoers and for praise to those who do well.
 15. For this is the will of God, that by well-doing you should put to silence the ignorance of dumb men:
 16. as free, and not using your freedom for a cloak of wickedness, but as bondservants of God.
 17. Honor all men. show love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the ruler.
 18. Servants, be in subjection to your masters with all fear; not only to the fire and gentle, but also to the wicked.
 19. For it is commendable if someone endures pain, suffering unjustly, cuz of conscience toward God.
 20. For what glory is it if, when you messing up, you patiently endure beating? But if, when you do well, you patiently endure suffering, this is commendable with God.
 21. For to this you were called, cuz anointed one also suffered for us, leaving you an example, that you should roll with his steps,
 22. who did not messing up, “neither was deceit found in his mouth.”
 23. Who, when he was cursed, didn’t curse back. When he suffered, didn’t threaten, but committed himself to him who judges righteously;
 24. who his own self bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we, having died to sins, might live to righteousness; by whose stripes you were healed.
 25. For you were going astray like sheep; but now have returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.
