# 1 Peter Chapter 1

  1. Peter, an Jesus' main squad of Jesus the huge set apart, to the chosen ones who are living as foreigners in the Dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
  2. according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in sanctification of the Spirit, that ya may obey Jesus the huge set apart and be sprinkled with his blood: God's show love to ya and peace be multiplied.
  3. blessed up be the God and Father of our boss Jesus the huge set apart, who according to his major mercy became our father again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus the huge set apart from the dead,
  4. to an incorruptible and undefiled inheritance that doesn’t fade away, reserved in Heaven for ya,
  5. who by the power of God are guarded through trusting the process for a getting saved ready to be revealed in the last time.
  6. Wherein ya greatly be hyped, though now for a little while, if need be, ya have been put to grief in various trials,
  7. that the proof of your trusting the process, which is more precious than gold that perishes even though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise, glory, and honor at the revelation of Jesus the huge set apart—
  8. whom not having known ya show love; in whom, though now ya don’t check it out him, yet believing, ya be hyped greatly with joy unspeakable and full of glory—
  9. receiving the result of your trusting the process, the getting saved of your souls.
 10. Concerning this getting saved, the prophets sought and searched diligently, who prophesied of the God's show love that would come through to ya,
 11. searching for who or what kind of time the Spirit of the huge set apart, which was in them, pointed to, when he predicted the sufferings of the huge set apart, and the glories that would roll with them.
 12. To them it was revealed, that not to themselves, but to ya, they ministered these things, which now have been announced to ya through those who preached the fire News to ya by the set apart Spirit sent out from heaven; which things angels desire to look into.
 13. so basically, prepare your minds for action, be sober and set your hope fully on the God's show love that will be brought to ya at the revelation of Jesus the huge set apart—
 14. as children of obedience, not conforming yourselves according to your former lusts as in your ignorance,
 15. but just as he who called ya is set apart, ya yourselves also be set apart in all of your behavior;
 16. cuz it is written, “ya shall be set apart; for I am set apart.”
 17. If ya call on him as Father, who without respect of persons judges according to each man’s work, pass the time of your living as foreigners here in reverent fear:
 18. knowing that ya were redeemed, not with corruptible things, with silver or gold, from the useless way of life handed down from your fathers,
 19. but with precious blood, as of a faultless and pure lamb, the blood of the huge set apart;
 20. who was foreknown facts before the foundation of the world, but was revealed at the end of times for your sake,
 21. who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead, and gave him glory; so that your trusting the process and hope might be in God.
 22. Seeing ya have purified your souls in your obedience to the truth through the Spirit in sincere brotherly affection, show love one another from the heart fervently:
 23. having been born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, through the word of God, which lives and remains forever.
 24. For, “All flesh is like grass, and all of man’s glory like the flower in the grass. The grass withers, and its flower falls;
 25. but the boss’s word endures forever.” This is the word of fire News which was preached to ya.
