# 1 Peter Chapter 4

  1. Forasmuch then as anointed one suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves also with the same mind; for he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from messing up;
  2. that you no longer should live the rest of your time in the flesh for the lusts of men, but for the will of God.
  3. For we have spent enough of our past time doing the desire of the Gentiles, and having walked in lewdness, lusts, drunken binges, orgies, carousings, and abominable idolatries.
  4. They think it is strange that you don’t run with them into the same excess of riot, blaspheming:
  5. who will hook it up account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.
  6. For to this end the fire News was preached even to the dead, that they might be judged facts as men in the flesh, but live as to God in the spirit.
  7. But the end of all things is near. so basically be of sound mind, self-controlled, and sober in talking to God.
  8. And above all things be earnest in your show love among yourselves, for show love covers a multitude of sins.
  9. Be hospitable to one another without grumbling.
 10. As each has received a gift, employ it in serving one another, as fire managers of the God's show love of God in its various forms.
 11. If anyone speaks, let it be as it were the hella words of God. If anyone serves, let it be as of the strength which God supplies, that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus anointed one, to whom belong the glory and the dominion forever and ever. facts.
 12. Beloved, don’t be astonished at the fiery trial which has come through upon you, to test you, as though a strange thing happened to you.
 13. But cuz you are partakers of anointed one’s sufferings, be hyped; that at the revelation of his glory you also may be hyped with exceeding joy.
 14. If you are insulted for the name of anointed one, you are blessed up; cuz the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you. On their part he is blasphemed, but on your part he is glorified.
 15. For let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evil doer, or a meddler in other men’s matters.
 16. But if one of you suffers for being a Christian, let him not be ashamed; but let him glorify God in this matter.
 17. For the time has come through for judgment to begin with the household of God. If it begins first with us, what will happen to those who don’t obey the fire News of God?
 18. “If it is hard for the doing what's right to be saved, what will happen to the ungodly and the sinner?”
 19. so basically let them also who suffer according to the will of God in doing fire entrust their souls to him, as to a faithful Creator.
