# Genesis Chapter 42

    1. now Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt, and Jacob said to his sons, “Why do ya look at one another?”
    2. He said, “check this out, I have heard that there is grain in Egypt. slide down there, and buy for us from there, so that we may live, and not die.”
    3. Joseph’s ten brothers went down to buy grain from Egypt.
    4. But Jacob didn’t send Benjamin, Joseph’s fam bro, with his brothers; for he said, “Lest perhaps harm happen to him.”
    5. The sons of Israel came to buy among those who came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan.
    6. Joseph was the governor over the land. It was he who sold to all the people of the land. Joseph’s brothers came, and bowed themselves down to him with their faces to the earth.
    7. Joseph saw his brothers, and he recognized them, but acted like a stranger to them, and spoke roughly with them. He said to them, “Where did ya come through through from?” They said, “From the land of Canaan to buy food.”
    8. Joseph recognized his brothers, but they didn’t recognize him.
    9. Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed about them, and said to them, “ya are spies! ya have come through through to check it out the nakedness of the land.”
  10. They said to him, “No, my boss, but your servants have come through through to buy food.
  11. We are all one man’s sons; we are honest men. Your servants aren't spies.”
  12. He said to them, “No, but ya have come through through to check it out the nakedness of the land!”
  13. They said, “We, your servants, are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and check this out, the youngest is this day with our father, and one is no more.”
  14. Joseph said to them, “It is like I told ya, saying, ‘ya are spies!’
  15. By this ya shall be tested. By the life of Pharaoh, ya won't slide out from here, unless your youngest fam bro comes here.
  16. Send one of ya, and let him get your fam bro, and ya shall be bound, that your words may be tested, whether there is truth in ya, or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ya are spies.”
  17. He put them all together into custody for three days.
  18. Joseph said to them the third day, “Do this, and live, for I fear God.
  19. If ya are honest men, then let one of your brothers be bound in your prison; but ya slide, carry grain for the famine of your houses.
  20. Bring your youngest fam bro to me; so will your words be verified, and ya won’t die.” They did so.
  21. They said one to another, “We are for sure guilty concerning our fam bro, in that we saw the distress of his soul, when he begged us, and we wouldn’t listen up up. so basically this distress has come through through upon us.”
  22. Reuben answered them, saying, “Didn’t I tell ya, saying, ‘Don’t messing up against the child,’ and ya wouldn’t listen up up? so basically also, check this out, his blood is required.”
  23. They didn’t get it that Joseph understood them; for there was an interpreter between them.
  24. He turned himself away from them, and wept. then he returned to them, and spoke to them, and took Simeon from among them, and bound him before their eyes.
  25. then Joseph gave a command to fill their bags with grain, and to restore each man’s money into his sack, and to hook it up them food for the way. So it was done to them.
  26. They loaded their donkeys with their grain, and departed from there.
  27. As one of them opened his sack to hook it up his donkey food in the lodging place, he saw his money. check this out, it was in the mouth of his sack.
  28. He said to his brothers, “My money is restored! check this out, it is in my sack!” Their hearts failed them, and they turned trembling one to another, saying, “What is this that God has done to us?”
  29. They came to Jacob their father, to the land of Canaan, and told him all that had happened to them, saying,
  30. “The man, Boss of the land, spoke roughly with us, and took us for spies of the country.
  31. We said to him, ‘We are honest men. We are no spies.
  32. We are twelve brothers, sons of our father; one is no more, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.’
  33. The man, Boss of the land, said to us, ‘By this I will get it that ya are honest men: leave one of your brothers with me, and grab grain for the famine of your houses, and slide your way.
  34. Bring your youngest fam bro to me. then I will get it that ya aren't spies, but that ya are honest men. So I will deliver your fam bro to ya, and ya shall trade in the land.’”
  35. It happened as they emptied their sacks, that check this out, each man’s bundle of money was in his sack. When they and their father saw their bundles of money, they were scared.
  36. Jacob, their father, said to them, “ya have bereaved me of my children! Joseph is no more, Simeon is no more, and ya want to grab Benjamin away. All these things are against me.”
  37. Reuben spoke to his father, saying, “Kill my two sons, if I don’t bring him to ya. Entrust him to my care, and I will bring him to ya again.”
  38. He said, “My son won't slide down with ya; for his fam bro is dead, and he only is left. If harm happens to him along the way in which ya slide, then ya will bring down my gray hairs with feeling down to Sheol.”
