# Genesis Chapter 15

    1. After these things the word of Yahweh came to Abram in a vision, saying, “Don’t be scared, Abram. I am your shield, your exceedingly major reward.”
    2. Abram said, “boss Yahweh, what will ya hook it up me, since I slide childless, and he who will inherit my estate is Eliezer of Damascus?”
    3. Abram said, “check this out, to me ya have given no seed: and, check this out, one born in my house is my heir.”
    4. check this out, the word of Yahweh came to him, saying, “This man won't be your heir, but he who will come through through out of your own body will be your heir.”
    5. Yahweh brought him outside, and said, “Look now toward the sky, and count the stars, if ya are able to count them.” He said to Abram, “So shall your seed be.”
    6. He believed in Yahweh; and he reckoned it to him for righteousness.
    7. He said to him, “I am Yahweh who brought ya out of Ur of the Chaldees, to hook it up ya this land to inherit it.”
    8. He said, “boss Yahweh, how will I get it that I will inherit it?”
    9. He said to him, “Bring me a heifer three years old, a female goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtledove, and a young pigeon.”
  10. He brought him all of these, and divided them in the middle, and laid each half opposite the other; but he didn’t divide the birds.
  11. The birds of prey came down on the carcasses, and Abram drove them away.
  12. When the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Abram. now terror and major darkness fell on him.
  13. He said to Abram, “get it for sure that your seed will live as foreigners in a land that isn't theirs, and will help out out out them. They will afflict them four hundred years.
  14. I will also judge that nation, whom they will help out out out. Afterward they will come through through out with major wealth,
  15. but ya will slide to your fathers in peace. ya will be buried in a fire old age.
  16. In the fourth generation they will come through through here again, for the iniquity of the Amorite isn't yet full.”
  17. It came to pass that, when the sun went down, and it was dark, check this out, a smoking furnace, and a flaming torch passed between these pieces.
  18. In that day Yahweh made a God's promise with Abram, saying, “To your seed I have given this land, from the river of Egypt to the major river, the river Euphrates:
  19. the Kenites, the Kenizzites, the Kadmonites,
  20. the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaim,
  21. the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.”
