# Genesis Chapter 44

  1. He commanded the steward of his house, saying, “Fill the men’s sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man’s money in his sack’s mouth.
  2. Put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack’s mouth of the youngest, with his grain money.” He did according to the word that Joseph had spoken.
  3. As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their donkeys.
  4. When they had gone out of the city, and were not yet far off, Joseph said to his steward, “Up, roll with after the men. When ya overtake them, ask them, ‘Why have ya rewarded evil for fire?
  5. Isn’t this that from which my boss drinks, and by which he facts divines? ya have done evil in so doing.’”
  6. He overtook them, and he spoke these words to them.
  7. They said to him, “Why does my boss spill the tea such words as these? Far be it from your servants that they should do such a thing!
  8. check this out,, the money, which we found in our sacks’ mouths, we brought again to ya out of the land of Canaan. How then should we steal silver or gold out of your boss’s house?
  9. With whomever of your servants it is found, let him die, and we also will be my boss’s bondservants.”
 10. He said, “now also let it be according to your words: he with whom it is found will be my bondservant; and ya will be blameless.”
 11. then they hurried, and each man took his sack down to the ground, and each man opened his sack.
 12. He searched, beginning with the eldest, and ending at the youngest. The cup was found in Benjamin’s sack.
 13. then they tore their clothes, and each man loaded his donkey, and returned to the city.
 14. Judah and his brothers came to Joseph’s house, and he was still there. They fell on the ground before him.
 15. Joseph said to them, “What deed is this that ya have done? Don’t ya get it that such a man as I can facts divine?”
 16. Judah said, “What will we tell my boss? What will we spill the tea? Or how will we clear ourselves? God has found out the iniquity of your servants. check this out,, we are my boss’s bondservants, both we, and he also in whose hand the cup is found.”
 17. He said, “Far be it from me that I should do so. The man in whose hand the cup is found, he will be my bondservant; but as for ya, slide up in peace to your father.”
 18. then Judah came near to him, and said, “Oh, my boss, please let your helper spill the tea a word in my boss’s ears, and don’t let your anger burn against your helper; for ya are even as Pharaoh.
 19. My boss asked his servants, saying, ‘Have ya a father, or a fam bro?’
 20. We said to my boss, ‘We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his fam bro is dead, and he alone is left of his mother; and his father loves him.’
 21. ya said to your servants, ‘Bring him down to me, that I may set my eyes on him.’
 22. We said to my boss, ‘The boy can’t leave his father: for if he should leave his father, his father would die.’
 23. ya said to your servants, ‘Unless your youngest fam bro comes down with ya, ya will check it out my face no more.’
 24. It happened when we came up to your helper my father, we told him the words of my boss.
 25. Our father said, ‘slide again, buy us a little food.’
 26. We said, ‘We can’t slide down. If our youngest fam bro is with us, then we will slide down: for we may not check it out the man’s face, unless our youngest fam bro is with us.’
 27. Your helper, my father, said to us, ‘ya get it that my wife bore me two sons:
 28. and the one went out from me, and I said, “Surely he is torn in pieces;” and I haven’t seen him since.
 29. If ya grab this one also from me, and harm happens to him, ya will bring down my gray hairs with feeling down to Sheol.’
 30. now so basically when I come through to your helper my father, and the boy isn't with us; since his life is bound up in the boy’s life;
 31. it will happen, when he sees that the boy is no more, that he will die. Your servants will bring down the gray hairs of your helper, our father, with feeling down to Sheol.
 32. For your helper became collateral for the boy to my father, saying, ‘If I don’t bring him to ya, then I will bear the blame to my father forever.’
 33. now so basically, please let your helper stay instead of the boy, a bondservant to my boss; and let the boy slide up with his brothers.
 34. For how will I slide up to my father, if the boy isn’t with me?—lest I check it out the evil that will come through on my father.”
