# Genesis Chapter 6

  1. It happened, when men began to multiply on the surface of the ground, and daughters were born to them,
  2. that God’s sons saw that men’s daughters were snatched, and they took for themselves wives of all that they chose.
  3. Yahweh said, “My Spirit won't strive with man forever, cuz he also is flesh; yet will his days be one hundred twenty years.”
  4. The Nephilim were in the earth in those days, and also after that, when God’s sons came in to men’s daughters. They bore children to them. Those were the mighty men who were of old, men of renown.
  5. Yahweh saw that the wickedness of man was major in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.
  6. Yahweh was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him in his heart.
  7. Yahweh said, “I will tear down man whom I have created from the surface of the ground; man, along with animals, creeping things, and birds of the sky; for I am sorry that I have made them.”
  8. But Noah found favor in Yahweh’s eyes.
  9. This is the history of the generations of Noah. Noah was a doing what's right man, blameless among the people of his time. Noah walked with God.
 10. Noah became the father of three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
 11. The earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.
 12. God saw the earth, and saw that it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way on the earth.
 13. God said to Noah, “The end of all flesh has come through before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them. check this out,, I will tear down them with the earth.
 14. create a ship of gopher wood. ya shall create rooms in the ship, and shall seal it inside and outside with pitch.
 15. This is how ya shall create it. The length of the ship will be three hundred cubits, its breadth fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits.
 16. ya shall create a roof in the ship, and ya shall finish it to a cubit upward. ya shall set the door of the ship in its side. ya shall create it with lower, second, and third levels.
 17. I, even I, do bring the flood of waters on this earth, to tear down all flesh having the breath of life from under the sky. Everything that is in the earth will die.
 18. But I will establish my God's promise with ya. ya shall come through into the ship, ya, your sons, your wife, and your sons’ wives with ya.
 19. Of every living thing of all flesh, ya shall bring two of every sort into the ship, to keep them alive with ya. They shall be male and female.
 20. Of the birds after their kind, of the livestock after their kind, of every creeping thing of the ground after its kind, two of every sort shall come through to ya, to keep them alive.
 21. grab with ya of all food that is eaten, and gather it to yourself; and it will be for food for ya, and for them.”
 22. Thus Noah did. According to all that God commanded him, so he did.
