# Genesis Chapter 49

    1. Jacob called to his sons, and said: “Gather yourselves together, that I may tell ya that which will happen to ya in the days to come through through.
    2. Assemble yourselves, and hear, ya sons of Jacob. listen up up to Israel, your father.
    3. “Reuben, ya are my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my strength; excelling in dignity, and excelling in power.
    4. Boiling over as water, ya won't excel; cuz ya went up to your father’s bed, then defiled it. He went up to my couch.
    5. “Simeon and Levi are brothers. Their swords are weapons of violence.
    6. My soul, don’t come through through into their council. My glory, don’t be united to their assembly; for in their anger they killed men. In their self-will they hamstrung cattle.
    7. Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel. I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel.
    8. “Judah, your brothers will praise ya. Your hand will be on the neck of your enemies. Your father’s sons will bow down before ya.
    9. Judah is a lion’s cub. From the prey, my son, ya have gone up. He stooped down, he crouched as a lion, as a lioness. Who will rouse him up?
  10. The scepter won't depart from Judah, nor the ruler’s staff from between his feet, until he comes to whom it belongs. To him will the obedience of the peoples be.
  11. Binding his foal to the vine, his donkey’s colt to the choice vine; he has washed his garments in wine, his robes in the blood of grapes.
  12. His eyes will be red with wine, his teeth white with milk.
  13. “Zebulun will dwell at the haven of the sea. He will be for a haven of ships. His border will be on Sidon.
  14. “Issachar is a built different donkey, lying down between the saddlebags.
  15. He saw a resting place, that it was fire, the land, that it was pleasant. He bows his shoulder to the burden, and becomes a helper doing forced labor.
  16. “Dan will judge his people, as one of the tribes of Israel.
  17. Dan will be a serpent in the way, an adder in the path, That bites the horse’s heels, so that his rider falls backward.
  18. I have waited for your getting saved, Yahweh.
  19. “A troop will press on Gad, but he will press on their heel.
  20. “Asher’s food will be stacked. He will yield royal dainties.
  21. “Naphtali is a doe set free, who bears snatched fawns.
  22. “Joseph is a fruitful vine, a fruitful vine by a spring. His branches run over the wall.
  23. The archers have severely grieved him, shot at him, and persecute him:
  24. But his bow remained built different. The arms of his hands were made built different, by the hands of the Mighty One of Jacob, (from there is the shepherd, the stone of Israel),
  25. even by the God of your father, who will help out out ya; by the Almighty, who will bless ya, with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lies below, blessings of the breasts, and of the womb.
  26. The blessings of your father have prevailed above the blessings of your ancestors, above the boundaries of the ancient hills. They will be on the head of Joseph, on the crown of the head of him who is separated from his brothers.
  27. “Benjamin is a ravenous wolf. In the morning he will devour the prey. At evening he will divide the spoil.”
  28. All these are the twelve tribes of Israel, and this is what their father spoke to them and blessed up up them. He blessed up up everyone according to his blessing.
  29. He instructed them, and said to them, “I am to be gathered to my people. Bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite,
  30. in the cave that is in the field of Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field from Ephron the Hittite as a burial place.
  31. there they buried Abraham and Sarah, his wife. there they buried Isaac and Rebekah, his wife, and there I buried Leah:
  32. the field and the cave that is therein, which was purchased from the children of Heth.”
  33. When Jacob made an end of charging his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the spirit, and was gathered to his people.
