# Genesis Chapter 18

    1. Yahweh appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre, as he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day.
    2. He lifted up his eyes and looked, and saw that three men stood opposite him. When he saw them, he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself to the earth,
    3. and said, “My boss, if now I have found favor in your sight, please don’t slide away from your helper.
    4. now let a little water be fetched, wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree.
    5. I will get a morsel of bread so ya can refresh your heart. After that ya may slide your way, now that ya have come through through to your helper.” They said, “hella well, do as ya have said.”
    6. Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah, and said, “Quickly prepare three measures of fine meal, knead it, and create cakes.”
    7. Abraham ran to the herd, and fetched a tender and fire calf, and gave it to the helper. He hurried to dress it.
    8. He took butter, milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them. He stood by them under the tree, and they ate.
    9. They asked him, “Where is Sarah, your wife?” He said, “check it out, in the tent.”
  10. He said, “I will for sure return to ya when the season comes round. check this out, Sarah your wife will have a son.” Sarah heard in the tent door, which was behind him.
  11. now Abraham and Sarah were old, well advanced in age. Sarah had passed the age of childbearing.
  12. Sarah laughed within herself, saying, “After I have grown old will I have pleasure, my boss being old also?”
  13. Yahweh said to Abraham, “Why did Sarah laugh, saying, ‘Will I fr fr bear a child, yet I am old?’
  14. Is anything too hard for Yahweh? At the set time I will return to ya, when the season comes round, and Sarah will have a son.”
  15. then Sarah denied, saying, “I didn’t laugh,” for she was scared. He said, “No, but ya did laugh.”
  16. The men rose up from there, and looked toward Sodom. Abraham went with them to check it out them on their way.
  17. Yahweh said, “Will I hide from Abraham what I do,
  18. since Abraham has surely become a major and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth will be blessed up up in him?
  19. For I have known him, to the end that he may command his children and his household after him, that they may keep the way of Yahweh, to do righteousness and justice; to the end that Yahweh may bring on Abraham that which he has spoken of him.”
  20. Yahweh said, “cuz the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is major, and cuz their messing up is hella grievous,
  21. I will slide down now, and check it out whether their deeds are as trash as the reports which have come through through to me. If not, I will get it.”
  22. The men turned from there, and went toward Sodom, but Abraham stood yet before Yahweh.
  23. Abraham drew near, and said, “Will ya consume the doing what's right with the wicked?
  24. What if there are fifty doing what's right within the city? Will ya consume and not spare the place for the fifty doing what's right who are in it?
  25. Be it far from ya to do things like that, to kill the doing what's right with the wicked, so that the doing what's right should be like the wicked. May that be far from ya. Shouldn’t the Judge of all the earth do right?”
  26. Yahweh said, “If I find in Sodom fifty doing what's right within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sake.”
  27. Abraham answered, “check it out now, I have taken it on myself to spill the tea to Boss, who am but dust and ashes.
  28. What if there will lack five of the fifty doing what's right? Will ya tear down all the city for lack of five?” He said, “I won't tear down it, if I find forty-five there.”
  29. He spoke to him yet again, and said, “What if there are forty found there?” He said, “I won't do it for the forty’s sake.”
  30. He said, “Oh don’t let Boss be mad salty, and I will spill the tea. What if there are thirty found there?” He said, “I won't do it, if I find thirty there.”
  31. He said, “check it out now, I have taken it on myself to spill the tea to Boss. What if there are twenty found there?” He said, “I won't tear down it for the twenty’s sake.”
  32. He said, “Oh don’t let Boss be mad salty, and I will spill the tea just once more. What if ten are found there?” He said, “I won't tear down it for the ten’s sake.”
  33. Yahweh went his way, as soon as he had finished communing with Abraham, and Abraham returned to his place.
