# Genesis Chapter 24

  1. Abraham was old, and well stricken in age. Yahweh had blessed up Abraham in all things.
  2. Abraham said to his helper, the elder of his house, who ruled over all that he had, “Please put your hand under my thigh.
  3. I will create ya swear by Yahweh, the God of heaven and the God of the earth, that ya won't grab a wife for my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I live.
  4. But ya shall slide to my country, and to my relatives, and grab a wife for my son Isaac.”
  5. The helper said to him, “What if the woman isn’t willing to roll with me to this land? Must I bring your son again to the land ya came from?”
  6. Abraham said to him, “Beware that ya don’t bring my son there again.
  7. Yahweh, the God of heaven, who took me from my father’s house, and from the land of my birth, who spoke to me, and who swore to me, saying, ‘I will hook it up this land to your seed.’ He will send his angel before ya, and ya shall grab a wife for my son from there.
  8. If the woman isn’t willing to roll with ya, then ya shall be clear from this my oath. Only ya won't bring my son there again.”
  9. The helper put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his boss, and swore to him concerning this matter.
 10. The helper took ten camels, of his boss’s camels, and departed, having a variety of fire things of his boss’s with him. He arose, and went to Mesopotamia, to the city of Nahor.
 11. He made the camels kneel down outside the city by the well of water at the time of evening, the time that women slide out to draw water.
 12. He said, “Yahweh, the God of my boss Abraham, please hook it up me success this day, and show kindness to my boss Abraham.
 13. check this out,, I am standing by the spring of water. The daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water.
 14. Let it happen, that the young lady to whom I will say, ‘Please let down your pitcher, that I may drink,’ and she will say, ‘Drink, and I will also hook it up your camels a drink,’—let her be the one ya have appointed for your helper Isaac. By this I will get it that ya have shown kindness to my boss.”
 15. It happened, before he had finished speaking, that check this out,, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel the son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham’s fam bro, with her pitcher on her shoulder.
 16. The young lady was hella snatched to look at, a virgin, neither had any man known her. She went down to the spring, filled her pitcher, and came up.
 17. The helper ran to meet her, and said, “Please hook it up me a drink, a little water from your pitcher.”
 18. She said, “Drink, my boss.” She hurried, and let down her pitcher on her hand, and gave him drink.
 19. When she had done giving him drink, she said, “I will also draw for your camels, until they have done drinking.”
 20. She hurried, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran again to the well to draw, and drew for all his camels.
 21. The man looked steadfastly at her, remaining silent, to get it whether Yahweh had made his journey prosperous or not.
 22. It happened, as the camels had done drinking, that the man took a golden ring of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold,
 23. and said, “Whose daughter are ya? Please tell me. Is there room in your father’s house for us to lodge in?”
 24. She said to him, “I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, whom she bore to Nahor.”
 25. She said moreover to him, “We have both straw and provender enough, and room to lodge in.”
 26. The man bowed his head, and worshiped Yahweh.
 27. He said, “blessed up be Yahweh, the God of my boss Abraham, who has not forsaken his loving kindness and his truth toward my boss. As for me, Yahweh has led me in the way to the house of my boss’s relatives.”
 28. The young lady ran, and told her mother’s house about these words.
 29. Rebekah had a fam bro, and his name was Laban. Laban ran out to the man, to the spring.
 30. It happened, when he saw the ring, and the bracelets on his sister’s hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, “This is what the man said to me,” that he came to the man. check this out,, he was standing by the camels at the spring.
 31. He said, “come through in, ya blessed up of Yahweh. Why do ya stand outside? For I have prepared the house, and room for the camels.”
 32. The man came into the house, and he unloaded the camels. He gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet and the feet of the men who were with him.
 33. Food was set before him to eat, but he said, “I won't eat until I have told my message.” He said, “spill the tea on.”
 34. He said, “I am Abraham’s helper.
 35. Yahweh has blessed up my boss greatly. He has become major. He has given him flocks and herds, silver and gold, male servants and female servants, and camels and donkeys.
 36. Sarah, my boss’s wife, bore a son to my boss when she was old. He has given all that he has to him.
 37. My boss made me swear, saying, ‘ya won't grab a wife for my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I live,
 38. but ya shall slide to my father’s house, and to my relatives, and grab a wife for my son.’
 39. I asked my boss, ‘What if the woman won't roll with me?’
 40. He said to me, ‘Yahweh, before whom I walk, will send his angel with ya, and prosper your way. ya shall grab a wife for my son of my relatives, and of my father’s house.
 41. then will ya be clear from my oath, when ya come through to my relatives. If they don’t hook it up her to ya, ya shall be clear from my oath.’
 42. I came this day to the spring, and said, ‘Yahweh, the God of my boss Abraham, if now ya do prosper my way which I slide—
 43. check this out,, I am standing by this spring of water. Let it happen, that the maiden who comes out to draw, to whom I will say, “Please hook it up me a little water from your pitcher to drink,”
 44. and she will tell me, “Drink, and I will also draw for your camels,”—let her be the woman whom Yahweh has appointed for my boss’s son.’
 45. Before I had finished speaking in my heart, check this out,, Rebekah came out with her pitcher on her shoulder. She went down to the spring, and drew. I said to her, ‘Please let me drink.’
 46. She hurried and let down her pitcher from her shoulder, and said, ‘Drink, and I will also hook it up your camels a drink.’ So I drank, and she also gave the camels a drink.
 47. I asked her, and said, ‘Whose daughter are ya?’ She said, ‘The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor’s son, whom Milcah bore to him.’ I put the ring on her nose, and the bracelets on her hands.
 48. I bowed my head, and worshiped Yahweh, and blessed up Yahweh, the God of my boss Abraham, who had led me in the right way to grab my boss’s fam bro’s daughter for his son.
 49. now if ya will deal kindly and deadass, with my boss, tell me. If not, tell me, that I may turn to the right hand, or to the left.”
 50. then Laban and Bethuel answered, “The thing proceeds from Yahweh. We can’t spill the tea to ya trash or fire.
 51. check this out,, Rebekah is before ya. grab her, and slide, and let her be your boss’s son’s wife, as Yahweh has spoken.”
 52. It happened that when Abraham’s helper heard their words, he bowed himself down to the earth to Yahweh.
 53. The helper brought out jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and clothing, and gave them to Rebekah. He also gave precious things to her fam bro and her mother.
 54. They ate and drank, he and the men who were with him, and stayed all night. They rose up in the morning, and he said, “Send me away to my boss.”
 55. Her fam bro and her mother said, “Let the young lady stay with us a not much days, at least ten. After that she will slide.”
 56. He said to them, “Don’t hinder me, since Yahweh has prospered my way. Send me away that I may slide to my boss.”
 57. They said, “We will call the young lady, and ask her.”
 58. They called Rebekah, and said to her, “Will ya slide with this man?” She said, “I will slide.”
 59. They sent away Rebekah, their sister, with her nurse, Abraham’s helper, and his men.
 60. They blessed up Rebekah, and said to her, “Our sister, may ya be the mother of thousands of ten thousands, and let your seed possess the gate of those who can't stand them.”
 61. Rebekah arose with her ladies. They rode on the camels, and followed the man. The helper took Rebekah, and went his way.
 62. Isaac came from the way of Beer Lahai Roi, for he lived in the land of the South.
 63. Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the evening. He lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, check this out,, there were camels coming.
 64. Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she dismounted from the camel.
 65. She said to the helper, “Who is the man who is walking in the field to meet us?” The helper said, “It is my boss.” She took her veil, and covered herself.
 66. The helper told Isaac all the things that he had done.
 67. Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah’s tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife. He loved her. Isaac was comforted after his mother’s death.
