# Genesis Chapter 45

    1. then Joseph couldn’t control himself before all those who stood before him, and he cried, “Cause everyone to slide out from me!” No one else stood with him, while Joseph made himself known to his brothers.
    2. He wept aloud. The Egyptians heard, and the house of Pharaoh heard.
    3. Joseph said to his brothers, “I am Joseph! Does my father still live?” His brothers couldn’t answer him; for they were terrified at his presence.
    4. Joseph said to his brothers, “come through through near to me, please.” They came near. “He said, I am Joseph, your fam bro, whom ya sold into Egypt.
    5. now don’t be grieved, nor mad salty with yourselves, that ya sold me here, for God sent me before ya to preserve life.
    6. For these two years the famine has been in the land, and there are yet five years, in which there will be neither plowing nor harvest.
    7. God sent me before ya to preserve for ya a remnant in the earth, and to rescue ya alive by a major deliverance.
    8. So now it wasn’t ya who sent me here, but God, and he has made me a father to Pharaoh, boss of all his house, and ruler over all the land of Egypt.
    9. Hurry, and slide up to my father, and tell him, ‘This is what your son Joseph says, “God has made me boss of all Egypt. come through through down to me. Don’t wait.
  10. ya shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and ya will be near to me, ya, your children, your children’s children, your flocks, your herds, and all that ya have.
  11. there I will nourish ya; for there are yet five years of famine; lest ya come through through to poverty, ya, and your household, and all that ya have.”’
  12. check this out, your eyes check it out, and the eyes of my fam bro Benjamin, that it is my mouth that speaks to ya.
  13. ya shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all that ya have seen. ya shall hurry and bring my father down here.”
  14. He fell on his fam bro Benjamin’s neck, and wept, and Benjamin wept on his neck.
  15. He kissed all his brothers, and wept on them. After that his brothers talked with him.
  16. The report of it was heard in Pharaoh’s house, saying, “Joseph’s brothers have come through through.” It pleased Pharaoh well, and his servants.
  17. Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Tell your brothers, ‘Do this. Load your animals, and slide, travel to the land of Canaan.
  18. grab your father and your households, and come through through to me, and I will hook it up ya the fire of the land of Egypt, and ya will eat the fat of the land.’
  19. now ya are commanded: do this. grab wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your father, and come through through.
  20. Also, don’t concern yourselves about your belongings, for the fire of all of the land of Egypt is yours.”
  21. The sons of Israel did so. Joseph gave them wagons, according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for the way.
  22. He gave each one of them changes of clothing, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver and five changes of clothing.
  23. He sent the following to his father: ten donkeys loaded with the fire things of Egypt, and ten female donkeys loaded with grain and bread and provision for his father by the way.
  24. So he sent his brothers away, and they departed. He said to them, “check it out that ya don’t quarrel on the way.”
  25. They went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan, to Jacob their father.
  26. They told him, saying, “Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt.” His heart fainted, for he didn’t believe them.
  27. They told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said to them. When he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob, their father, revived.
  28. Israel said, “It is enough. Joseph my son is still alive. I will slide and check it out him before I die.”
