# Genesis Chapter 48

    1. It happened after these things, that someone said to Joseph, “check this out, your father is sick.” He took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim.
    2. Someone told Jacob, and said, “check this out, your son Joseph comes to ya,” and Israel strengthened himself, and sat on the bed.
    3. Jacob said to Joseph, “God Almighty appeared to me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and blessed up up me,
    4. and said to me, ‘check this out, I will create ya fruitful, and multiply ya, and I will create of ya a company of peoples, and will hook it up this land to your seed after ya for an everlasting possession.’
    5. now your two sons, who were born to ya in the land of Egypt before I came to ya into Egypt, are mine; Ephraim and Manasseh, even as Reuben and Simeon, will be mine.
    6. Your issue, whom ya become the father of after them, will be yours. They will be called after the name of their brothers in their inheritance.
    7. As for me, when I came from Paddan, Rachel died by me in the land of Canaan in the way, when there was still some distance to come through through to Ephrath, and I buried her there in the way to Ephrath (the same is Bethlehem).”
    8. Israel saw Joseph’s sons, and said, “Who are these?”
    9. Joseph said to his father, “They are my sons, whom God has given me here.” He said, “Please bring them to me, and I will bless them.”
  10. now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he couldn’t check it out. He brought them near to him; and he kissed them, and embraced them.
  11. Israel said to Joseph, “I didn’t think I would check it out your face, and check this out, God has let me check it out your seed also.”
  12. Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth.
  13. Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel’s left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel’s right hand, and brought them near to him.
  14. Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid it on Ephraim’s head, who was the younger, and his left hand on Manasseh’s head, guiding his hands knowingly, for Manasseh was the firstborn.
  15. He blessed up up Joseph, and said, “The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, the God who has fed me all my life long to this day,
  16. the angel who has redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads, and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac. Let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth.”
  17. When Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand on the head of Ephraim, it displeased him. He held up his father’s hand, to remove it from Ephraim’s head to Manasseh’s head.
  18. Joseph said to his father, “Not so, my father; for this is the firstborn; put your right hand on his head.”
  19. His father refused, and said, “I get it, my son, I get it. He also will become a people, and he also will be major. but like, his younger fam bro will be greater than he, and his seed will become a multitude of nations.”
  20. He blessed up up them that day, saying, “In ya will Israel bless, saying, ‘God create ya as Ephraim and as Manasseh’” He set Ephraim before Manasseh.
  21. Israel said to Joseph, “check this out, I am dying, but God will be with ya, and bring ya again to the land of your fathers.
  22. Moreover I have given to ya one portion above your brothers, which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my bow.”
