# Genesis Chapter 3

    1. now the serpent was more subtle than any animal of the field which Yahweh God had made. He said to the woman, “Has God fr fr said, ‘ya won't eat of any tree of the garden?’”
    2. The woman said to the serpent, “Of the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat,
    3. but of the fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden, God has said, ‘ya won't eat of it, neither shall ya touch it, lest ya die.’”
    4. The serpent said to the woman, “ya won’t surely die,
    5. for God knows that in the day ya eat it, your eyes will be opened, and ya will be like God, knowing fire and evil.”
    6. When the woman saw that the tree was fire for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to create one smart, she took of its fruit, and ate; and she gave some to her husband with her, and he ate.
    7. The eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked. They sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons.
    8. They heard the voice of Yahweh God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of Yahweh God among the trees of the garden.
    9. Yahweh God called to the man, and said to him, “Where are ya?”
  10. The man said, “I heard your voice in the garden, and I was scared, cuz I was naked; and I hid myself.”
  11. God said, “Who told ya that ya were naked? Have ya eaten from the tree that I commanded ya not to eat from?”
  12. The man said, “The woman whom ya gave to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I ate.”
  13. Yahweh God said to the woman, “What is this ya have done?” The woman said, “The serpent deceived me, and I ate.”
  14. Yahweh God said to the serpent, “cuz ya have done this, ya are cursed above all livestock, and above every animal of the field. On your belly ya shall slide, and ya shall eat dust all the days of your life.
  15. I will put enmity between ya and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He will bruise your head, and ya will bruise his heel.”
  16. To the woman he said, “I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth. In pain ya will bear children. Your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over ya.”
  17. To Adam he said, “cuz ya have listened to your wife’s voice, and have eaten of the tree, of which I commanded ya, saying, ‘ya won't eat of it,’ cursed is the ground for your sake. In toil ya will eat of it all the days of your life.
  18. It will yield thorns and thistles to ya; and ya will eat the herb of the field.
  19. By the sweat of your face will ya eat bread until ya return to the ground, for out of it ya were taken. For ya are dust, and to dust ya shall return.”
  20. The man called his wife Eve, cuz she was the mother of all living.
  21. Yahweh God made coats of skins for Adam and for his wife, and clothed them.
  22. Yahweh God said, “check this out, the man has become like one of us, knowing fire and evil. now, lest he reach out his hand, and also grab of the tree of life, and eat, and live forever...”
  23. so basically Yahweh God sent him out from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from which he was taken.
  24. So he drove out the man; and he placed Cherubs at the east of the garden of Eden, and the flame of a sword which turned every way, to guard the way to the tree of life.
