# Genesis Chapter 32

    1. Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.
    2. When he saw them, Jacob said, “This is God’s army.” He called the name of that place Mahanaim.
    3. Jacob sent messengers in front of him to Esau, his fam bro, to the land of Seir, the field of Edom.
    4. He commanded them, saying, “This is what ya shall tell my boss, Esau: ‘This is what your helper, Jacob, says. I have lived as a foreigner with Laban, and stayed until now.
    5. I have cattle, donkeys, flocks, male servants, and female servants. I have sent to tell my boss, that I may find favor in your sight.’”
    6. The messengers returned to Jacob, saying, “We came to your fam bro Esau. Not only that, but he comes to meet ya, and four hundred men with him.”
    7. then Jacob was greatly scared and was distressed. He divided the people who were with him, and the flocks, and the herds, and the camels, into two companies;
    8. and he said, “If Esau comes to the one company, and strikes it, then the company which is left will escape.”
    9. Jacob said, “God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, Yahweh, who said to me, ‘Return to your country, and to your relatives, and I will do ya fire,’
  10. I am not worthy of the least of all the loving kindnesses, and of all the truth, which ya have shown to your helper; for with just my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I have become two companies.
  11. Please deliver me from the hand of my fam bro, from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he come through through and strike me, and the mothers with the children.
  12. ya said, ‘I will surely do ya fire, and create your seed as the sand of the sea, which can’t be numbered cuz there are so a lot.’”
  13. He lodged there that night, and took from that which he had with him, a present for Esau, his fam bro:
  14. two hundred female goats and twenty male goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams,
  15. thirty milk camels and their colts, forty cows, ten bulls, twenty female donkeys and ten foals.
  16. He delivered them into the hands of his servants, every herd by itself, and said to his servants, “Pass over before me, and put a space between herd and herd.”
  17. He commanded the foremost, saying, “When Esau, my fam bro, meets ya, and asks ya, saying, ‘Whose are ya? Where are ya going? Whose are these before ya?’
  18. then ya shall say, ‘They are your helper, Jacob’s. It is a present sent to my boss, Esau. check this out, he also is behind us.’”
  19. He commanded also the second, and the third, and all that followed the herds, saying, “This is how ya shall spill the tea to Esau, when ya find him.
  20. ya shall say, ‘Not only that, but check this out, your helper, Jacob, is behind us.’” For, he said, “I will appease him with the present that goes before me, and afterward I will check it out his face. Perhaps he will accept me.”
  21. So the present passed over before him, and he himself lodged that night in the camp.
  22. He rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two handmaids, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford of the Jabbok.
  23. He took them, and sent them over the stream, and sent over that which he had.
  24. Jacob was left alone, and wrestled with a man there until the breaking of the day.
  25. When he saw that he didn’t prevail against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh, and the hollow of Jacob’s thigh was strained, as he wrestled.
  26. The man said, “Let me slide, for the day breaks.” Jacob said, “I won’t let ya slide, unless ya bless me.”
  27. He said to him, “What is your name?” He said, “Jacob.”
  28. He said, “Your name will no longer be called Jacob, but Israel; for ya have fought with God and with men, and have prevailed.”
  29. Jacob asked him, “Please tell me your name.” He said, “Why is it that ya ask what my name is?” He blessed up up him there.
  30. Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for, he said, “I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.”
  31. The sun rose on him as he passed over Peniel, and he limped cuz of his thigh.
  32. so basically the children of Israel don’t eat the sinew of the hip, which is on the hollow of the thigh, to this day, cuz he touched the hollow of Jacob’s thigh in the sinew of the hip.
