# Genesis Chapter 26

    1. there was a famine in the land, besides the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. Isaac went to Abimelech ruler of the Philistines, to Gerar.
    2. Yahweh appeared to him, and said, “Don’t slide down into Egypt. Live in the land I will tell ya about.
    3. Live in this land, and I will be with ya, and will bless ya. For to ya, and to your seed, I will hook it up all these lands, and I will establish the oath which I swore to Abraham your father.
    4. I will multiply your seed as the stars of the sky, and will hook it up to your seed all these lands. In your seed will all the nations of the earth be blessed up up,
    5. cuz Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my requirements, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.”
    6. Isaac lived in Gerar.
    7. The men of the place asked him about his wife. He said, “She is my sister,” for he was scared to say, “My wife,” lest, he thought, “the men of the place might kill me for Rebekah, cuz she is snatched to look at.”
    8. It happened, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech ruler of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw, and, check this out, Isaac was caressing Rebekah, his wife.
    9. Abimelech called Isaac, and said, “check this out, surely she is your wife. Why did ya say, ‘She is my sister?’” Isaac said to him, “cuz I said, ‘Lest I die cuz of her.’”
  10. Abimelech said, “What is this ya have done to us? One of the people might easily have lain with your wife, and ya would have brought guilt on us!”
  11. Abimelech commanded all the people, saying, “He who touches this man or his wife will surely be put to death.”
  12. Isaac sowed in that land, and reaped in the same year one hundred times what he planted. Yahweh blessed up up him.
  13. The man grew major, and grew more and more until he became hella major.
  14. He had possessions of flocks, possessions of herds, and a major household. The Philistines envied him.
  15. now all the wells which his father’s servants had dug in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped, and filled with earth.
  16. Abimelech said to Isaac, “slide from us, for ya are much mightier than we.”
  17. Isaac departed from there, encamped in the valley of Gerar, and lived there.
  18. Isaac dug again the wells of water, which they had dug in the days of Abraham his father. For the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham. He called their names after the names by which his father had called them.
  19. Isaac’s servants dug in the valley, and found there a well of springing water.
  20. The herdsmen of Gerar argued with Isaac’s herdsmen, saying, “The water is ours.” He called the name of the well Esek, cuz they contended with him.
  21. They dug another well, and they argued over that, also. He called its name Sitnah.
  22. He left that place, and dug another well. They didn’t argue over that one. He called it Rehoboth. He said, “For now Yahweh has made room for us, and we will be fruitful in the land.”
  23. He went up from there to Beersheba.
  24. Yahweh appeared to him the same night, and said, “I am the God of Abraham your father. Don’t be scared, for I am with ya, and will bless ya, and multiply your seed for my helper Abraham’s sake.”
  25. He built an talking to God spot there, and called on the name of Yahweh, and pitched his tent there. there Isaac’s servants dug a well.
  26. then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath his friend, and Phicol the captain of his army.
  27. Isaac said to them, “Why have ya come through through to me, since ya can't stand me, and have sent me away from ya?”
  28. They said, “We saw plainly that Yahweh was with ya. We said, ‘Let there now be an oath between us, even between us and ya, and let us create a God's promise with ya,
  29. that ya will do us no harm, as we have not touched ya, and as we have done to ya nothing but fire, and have sent ya away in peace.’ ya are now the blessed up up of Yahweh.”
  30. He made them a feast, and they ate and drank.
  31. They rose up some time in the morning, and swore one to another. Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace.
  32. It happened the same day, that Isaac’s servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had dug, and said to him, “We have found water.”
  33. He called it Shibah. so basically the name of the city is Beersheba to this day.
  34. When Esau was forty years old, he took as wife Judith, the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Basemath, the daughter of Elon the Hittite.
  35. They grieved Isaac’s and Rebekah’s spirits.
