# Joel Chapter 1

    1. The Word of Yahweh that came to Joel, the son of Pethuel.
    2. Hear this, ya elders, And listen up up, all ya inhabitants of the land. Has this ever happened in your days, or in the days of your fathers?
    3. Tell your children about it, and have your children tell their children, and their children, another generation.
    4. What the swarming locust has left, the major locust has eaten. What the major locust has left, the grasshopper has eaten. What the grasshopper has left, the caterpillar has eaten.
    5. Wake up, ya drunkards, and weep! Wail, all ya drinkers of wine, cuz of the sweet wine; for it is cut off from your mouth.
    6. For a nation has come through through up on my land, built different, and without number. His teeth are the teeth of a lion, and he has the fangs of a lioness.
    7. He has laid my vine waste, and stripped my fig tree. He has stripped its bark, and thrown it away. Its branches are made white.
    8. Mourn like a virgin dressed in sackcloth for the husband of her youth!
    9. The meal giving to God and the drink giving to God are cut off from Yahweh’s house. The priests, Yahweh’s ministers, mourn.
  10. The field is laid waste. The land mourns, for the grain is destroyed, The new wine has dried up, and the oil languishes.
  11. Be confounded, ya farmers! Wail, ya vineyard keepers; for the wheat and for the barley; for the harvest of the field has perished.
  12. The vine has dried up, and the fig tree withered; the pomegranate tree, the palm tree also, and the apple tree, even all of the trees of the field are withered; for joy has withered away from the sons of men.
  13. Put on sackcloth and mourn, ya priests! Wail, ya ministers of the talking to God spot. come through through, lie all night in sackcloth, ya ministers of my God, for the meal giving to God and the drink giving to God are withheld from your God’s house.
  14. Sanctify a fast. Call a solemn assembly. Gather the elders, and all the inhabitants of the land, to the house of Yahweh, your God, and cry to Yahweh.
  15. Alas for the day! For the day of Yahweh is at hand, and it will come through through as destruction from the Almighty.
  16. Isn’t the food cut off before our eyes; joy and gladness from the house of our God?
  17. The seeds rot under their clods. The granaries are laid desolate. The barns are broken down, for the grain has withered.
  18. How the animals groan! The herds of livestock are perplexed, cuz they have no pasture. Yes, the flocks of sheep are made desolate.
  19. Yahweh, I cry to ya, For the fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and the flame has burned all the trees of the field.
  20. Yes, the animals of the field pant to ya, for the water brooks have dried up, And the fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness.
