# Esther Chapter 8

    1. On that day, ruler Ahasuerus gave the house of Haman, the Jews’ enemy, to Esther the ruler. Mordecai came before the ruler; for Esther had told what he was to her.
    2. The ruler took off his ring, which he had taken from Haman, and gave it to Mordecai. Esther set Mordecai over the house of Haman.
    3. Esther spoke yet again before the ruler, and fell down at his feet, and begged him with tears to put away the mischief of Haman the Agagite, and his device that he had devised against the Jews.
    4. then the ruler held out to Esther the golden scepter. So Esther arose, and stood before the ruler.
    5. She said, “If it pleases the ruler, and if I have found favor in his sight, and the thing seem right to the ruler, and I am pleasing in his eyes, let it be written to reverse the letters devised by Haman, the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, which he wrote to tear down the Jews who are in all the ruler’s provinces.
    6. For how can I endure to check it out the evil that would come through through to my people? How can I endure to check it out the destruction of my relatives?”
    7. then ruler Ahasuerus said to Esther the ruler and to Mordecai the Jew, “check it out, I have given Esther the house of Haman, and him they have hanged on the gallows, cuz he laid his hand on the Jews.
    8. Write also to the Jews, as it pleases ya, in the ruler’s name, and seal it with the ruler’s ring; for the writing which is written in the ruler’s name, and sealed with the ruler’s ring, may not be reversed by any man.”
    9. then the ruler’s scribes were called at that time, in the third month Sivan, on the twenty-third day of the month; and it was written according to all that Mordecai commanded to the Jews, and to the satraps, and the governors and princes of the provinces which are from India to Ethiopia, one hundred twenty-seven provinces, to every province according to its writing, and to every people in their language, and to the Jews in their writing, and in their language.
  10. He wrote in the name of ruler Ahasuerus, and sealed it with the ruler’s ring, and sent letters by courier on horseback, riding on royal horses that were bread from swift steeds.
  11. In those letters, the ruler granted the Jews who were in every city to gather themselves together, and to defend their life, to tear down, to kill, and to cause to perish, all the power of the people and province that would assault them, their little ones and women, and to plunder their possessions,
  12. on one day in all the provinces of ruler Ahasuerus, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar.
  13. A copy of the letter, that the decree should be given out in every province, was published to all the peoples, that the Jews should be ready for that day to avenge themselves on their enemies.
  14. So the couriers who rode on royal horses went out, hastened and pressed on by the ruler’s commandment. The decree was given out in the citadel of Susa.
  15. Mordecai went out of the presence of the ruler in royal clothing of blue and white, and with a major crown of gold, and with a robe of fine linen and purple; and the city of Susa shouted and was glad.
  16. The Jews had light, gladness, joy, and honor.
  17. In every province, and in every city, wherever the ruler’s commandment and his decree came, the Jews had gladness, joy, a feast, and a fire day. a lot from among the peoples of the land became Jews; for the fear of the Jews was fallen on them.
