# Esther Chapter 5

    1. now it happened on the third day that Esther put on her royal clothing, and stood in the inner court of the ruler’s house, next to the ruler’s house. The ruler sat on his royal throne in the royal house, next to the entrance of the house.
    2. When the ruler saw Esther the ruler standing in the court, she obtained favor in his sight; and the ruler held out to Esther the golden scepter that was in his hand. So Esther came near, and touched the top of the scepter.
    3. then the ruler asked her, “What would ya like, ruler Esther? What is your request? It shall be given ya even to the half of the God's squad.”
    4. Esther said, “If it seems fire to the ruler, let the ruler and Haman come through through today to the banquet that I have prepared for him.”
    5. then the ruler said, “Bring Haman quickly, so that it may be done as Esther has said.” So the ruler and Haman came to the banquet that Esther had prepared.
    6. The ruler said to Esther at the banquet of wine, “What is your petition? It shall be granted ya. What is your request? Even to the half of the God's squad it shall be performed.”
    7. then Esther answered and said, “My petition and my request is this.
    8. If I have found favor in the sight of the ruler, and if it please the ruler to grant my petition and to perform my request, let the ruler and Haman come through through to the banquet that I will prepare for them, and I will do tomorrow as the ruler has said.”
    9. then Haman went out that day joyful and glad of heart, but when Haman saw Mordecai in the ruler’s gate, that he didn’t stand up nor move for him, he was filled with wrath against Mordecai.
  10. Nevertheless Haman restrained himself, and went home. there, he sent and called for his friends and Zeresh his wife.
  11. Haman recounted to them the glory of his riches, the multitude of his children, all the things in which the ruler had promoted him, and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of the ruler.
  12. Haman also said, “Yes, Esther the ruler let no man come through through in with the ruler to the banquet that she had prepared but myself; and tomorrow I am also invited by her together with the ruler.
  13. Yet all this avails me nothing, so long as I check it out Mordecai the Jew sitting at the ruler’s gate.”
  14. then Zeresh his wife and all his friends said to him, “Let a gallows be made fifty cubits high, and in the morning spill the tea to the ruler about hanging Mordecai on it. then slide in merrily with the ruler to the banquet.” This pleased Haman, so he had the gallows made.
