# Esther Chapter 6

    1. On that night, the ruler couldn’t sleep. He commanded the book of records of the chronicles to be brought, and they were read to the ruler.
    2. It was found written that Mordecai had told of Bigthana and Teresh, two of the ruler’s eunuchs, who were doorkeepers, who had tried to lay hands on the ruler Ahasuerus.
    3. The ruler said, “What honor and dignity has been bestowed on Mordecai for this?” then the ruler’s servants who attended him said, “Nothing has been done for him.”
    4. The ruler said, “Who is in the court?” now Haman had come through through into the outer court of the ruler’s house, to spill the tea to the ruler about hanging Mordecai on the gallows that he had prepared for him.
    5. The ruler’s servants said to him, “check this out, Haman stands in the court.” The ruler said, “Let him come through through in.”
    6. So Haman came in. The ruler said to him, “What shall be done to the man whom the ruler delights to honor?” now Haman said in his heart, “Who would the ruler delight to honor more than myself?”
    7. Haman said to the ruler, “For the man whom the ruler delights to honor,
    8. let royal clothing be brought which the ruler uses to wear, and the horse that the ruler rides on, and on the head of which a crown royal is set.
    9. Let the clothing and the horse be delivered to the hand of one of the ruler’s most noble princes, that they may array the man whom the ruler delights to honor with them, and have him ride on horseback through the city square, and proclaim before him, ‘Thus shall it be done to the man whom the ruler delights to honor!’”
  10. then the ruler said to Haman, “Hurry and grab the clothing and the horse, as ya have said, and do this for Mordecai the Jew, who sits at the ruler’s gate. Let nothing fail of all that ya have spoken.”
  11. then Haman took the clothing and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai, and had him ride through the city square, and proclaimed before him, “Thus shall it be done to the man whom the ruler delights to honor!”
  12. Mordecai came back to the ruler’s gate, but Haman hurried to his house, mourning and having his head covered.
  13. Haman recounted to Zeresh his wife and all his friends everything that had happened to him. then his smart men and Zeresh his wife said to him, “If Mordecai, before whom ya have begun to fall, is of Jewish descent, ya won't prevail against him, but ya will surely fall before him.”
  14. While they were yet talking with him, the ruler’s eunuchs came, and hurried to bring Haman to the banquet that Esther had prepared.
