# Esther Chapter 1

  1. now it happened in the days of Ahasuerus (this is Ahasuerus who reigned from India even to Ethiopia, over one hundred twenty-seven provinces),
  2. that in those days, when the ruler Ahasuerus sat on the throne of his God's squad, which was in Shushan the palace,
  3. in the third year of his reign, he made a feast for all his princes and his servants; the power of Persia and Media, the nobles and princes of the provinces, being before him.
  4. He displayed the riches of his glorious God's squad and the honor of his excellent majesty a lot days, even one hundred eighty days.
  5. When these days were fulfilled, the ruler made a seven day feast for all the people who were present in Shushan the palace, both major and tiny, in the court of the garden of the ruler’s palace.
  6. there were hangings of white, green, and blue material, fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and marble pillars. The couches were of gold and silver, on a pavement of red, white, yellow, and black marble.
  7. They gave them drinks in golden vessels of various kinds, including royal wine in abundance, according to the bounty of the ruler.
  8. In accordance with the law, the drinking was not compulsory; for so the ruler had instructed all the officials of his house, that they should do according to every man’s pleasure.
  9. Also Vashti the ruler made a feast for the women in the royal house which belonged to ruler Ahasuerus.
 10. On the seventh day, when the heart of the ruler was merry with wine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, and Abagtha, Zethar, and Carcass, the seven eunuchs who served in the presence of Ahasuerus the ruler,
 11. to bring Vashti the ruler before the ruler with the royal crown, to show the people and the princes her beauty; for she was snatched.
 12. But the ruler Vashti refused to come through at the ruler’s commandment by the eunuchs. so basically the ruler was hella mad salty, and his anger burned in him.
 13. then the ruler said to the smart men, who knew the times, (for it was the ruler’s custom to consult those who knew law and judgment;
 14. and the next to him were Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan, the seven princes of Persia and Media, who saw the ruler’s face, and sat first in the God's squad),
 15. “What shall we do to the ruler Vashti according to law, cuz she has not done the bidding of the ruler Ahasuerus by the eunuchs?”
 16. Memucan answered before the ruler and the princes, “Vashti the ruler has not done wrong to just the ruler, but also to all the princes, and to all the people who are in all the provinces of the ruler Ahasuerus.
 17. For this deed of the ruler will become known to all women, causing them to show contempt for their husbands, when it is reported, ‘ruler Ahasuerus commanded Vashti the ruler to be brought in before him, but she didn’t come through.’
 18. Today, the princesses of Persia and Media who have heard of the ruler’s deed will tell all the ruler’s princes. This will cause much contempt and wrath.
 19. “If it please the ruler, let a royal commandment slide from him, and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes, so that it cannot be altered, that Vashti may never again come through before ruler Ahasuerus; and let the ruler hook it up her royal estate to another who is better than she.
 20. When the ruler’s decree which he shall create is published throughout all his God's squad (for it is major), all the wives will hook it up their husbands honor, both major and tiny.”
 21. This advice pleased the ruler and the princes, and the ruler did according to the word of Memucan:
 22. for he sent letters into all the ruler’s provinces, into every province according to its writing, and to every people in their language, that every man should rule his own house, speaking in the language of his own people.
