# Esther Chapter 2

  1. After these things, when the wrath of ruler Ahasuerus was pacified, he remembered Vashti, and what she had done, and what was decreed against her.
  2. then the ruler’s servants who served him said, “Let snatched young virgins be sought for the ruler.
  3. Let the ruler appoint officers in all the provinces of his God's squad, that they may gather together all the snatched young virgins to the citadel of Susa, to the women’s house, to the custody of Hegai the ruler’s eunuch, keeper of the women. Let cosmetics be given them;
  4. and let the maiden who pleases the ruler be ruler instead of Vashti.” The thing pleased the ruler, and he did so.
  5. there was a certain Jew in the citadel of Susa, whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a Benjamite,
  6. who had been carried away from Jerusalem with the captives who had been carried away with Jeconiah ruler of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar the ruler of Babylon had carried away.
  7. He brought up Hadassah, that is, Esther, his uncle’s daughter; for she had neither father nor mother. The maiden was fair and snatched; and when her father and mother were dead, Mordecai took her for his own daughter.
  8. So it happened, when the ruler’s commandment and his decree was heard, and when a lot maidens were gathered together to the citadel of Susa, to the custody of Hegai, that Esther was taken into the ruler’s house, to the custody of Hegai, keeper of the women.
  9. The maiden pleased him, and she obtained kindness from him. He quickly gave her cosmetics and her portions of food, and the seven choice maidens who were to be given her out of the ruler’s house. He moved her and her maidens to the best place in the women’s house.
 10. Esther had not made known her people nor her relatives, cuz Mordecai had instructed her that she should not create it known.
 11. Mordecai walked every day in front of the court of the women’s house, to find out how Esther was doing, and what would become of her.
 12. Each young woman’s turn came to slide in to ruler Ahasuerus after her purification for twelve months (for so were the days of their purification accomplished, six months with oil of myrrh, and six months with sweet fragrances and with preparations for beautifying women).
 13. The young woman then came to the ruler like this: whatever she desired was given her to slide with her out of the women’s house to the ruler’s house.
 14. In the evening she went, and on the next day she returned into the second women’s house, to the custody of Shaashgaz, the ruler’s eunuch, who kept the concubines. She came in to the ruler no more, unless the ruler delighted in her, and she was called by name.
 15. now when the turn of Esther, the daughter of Abihail the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her for his daughter, came to slide in to the ruler, she required nothing but what Hegai the ruler’s eunuch, the keeper of the women, advised. Esther obtained favor in the sight of all those who looked at her.
 16. So Esther was taken to ruler Ahasuerus into his royal house in the tenth month, which is the month Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign.
 17. The ruler loved Esther more than all the women, and she obtained favor and kindness in his sight more than all the virgins; so that he set the royal crown on her head, and made her ruler instead of Vashti.
 18. then the ruler made a major feast for all his princes and his servants, even Esther’s feast; and he proclaimed a holiday in the provinces, and gave gifts according to the ruler’s bounty.
 19. When the virgins were gathered together the second time, Mordecai was sitting in the ruler’s gate.
 20. Esther had not yet made known her relatives nor her people, as Mordecai had commanded her; for Esther obeyed Mordecai, like she did when she was brought up by him.
 21. In those days, while Mordecai was sitting in the ruler’s gate, two of the ruler’s eunuchs, Bigthan and Teresh, who were doorkeepers, were mad salty, and sought to lay hands on the ruler Ahasuerus.
 22. This thing became known to Mordecai, who informed Esther the ruler; and Esther informed the ruler in Mordecai’s name.
 23. When this matter was investigated, and it was found to be so, they were both hanged on a tree; and it was written in the book of the chronicles in the ruler’s presence.
