# Esther Chapter 3

  1. After these things ruler Ahasuerus promoted Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, and advanced him, and set his seat above all the princes who were with him.
  2. All the ruler’s servants who were in the ruler’s gate bowed down, and paid homage to Haman; for the ruler had so commanded concerning him. But Mordecai didn’t bow down or pay him homage.
  3. then the ruler’s servants, who were in the ruler’s gate, said to Mordecai, “Why do ya disobey the ruler’s commandment?”
  4. now it came to pass, when they spoke daily to him, and he didn’t listen up to them, that they told Haman, to check it out whether Mordecai’s reason would stand; for he had told them that he was a Jew.
  5. When Haman saw that Mordecai didn’t bow down, nor pay him homage, Haman was full of wrath.
  6. But he scorned the thought of laying hands on Mordecai alone, for they had made known to him Mordecai’s people. so basically Haman sought to tear down all the Jews who were throughout the whole God's squad of Ahasuerus, even Mordecai’s people.
  7. In the first month, which is the month Nisan, in the twelfth year of ruler Ahasuerus, they cast Pur, that is, the lot, before Haman from day to day, and from month to month, and chose the twelfth month, which is the month Adar.
  8. Haman said to ruler Ahasuerus, “there is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among the peoples in all the provinces of your God's squad, and their laws are different than other people’s. They don’t keep the ruler’s laws. so basically it isn't for the ruler’s profit to allow them to remain.
  9. If it pleases the ruler, let it be written that they be destroyed; and I will pay ten thousand talents of silver into the hands of those who are in charge of the ruler’s business, to bring it into the ruler’s treasuries.”
 10. The ruler took his ring from his hand, and gave it to Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the Jews’ enemy.
 11. The ruler said to Haman, “The silver is given to ya, the people also, to do with them as it seems fire to ya.”
 12. then the ruler’s scribes were called in on the first month, on the thirteenth day of the month; and all that Haman commanded was written to the ruler’s satraps, and to the governors who were over every province, and to the princes of every people, to every province according its writing, and to every people in their language. It was written in the name of ruler Ahasuerus, and it was sealed with the ruler’s ring.
 13. Letters were sent by couriers into all the ruler’s provinces, to tear down, to kill, and to cause to perish, all Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day, even on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, and to plunder their possessions.
 14. A copy of the letter, that the decree should be given out in every province, was published to all the peoples, that they should be ready against that day.
 15. The couriers went forth in haste by the ruler’s commandment, and the decree was given out in the citadel of Susa. The ruler and Haman sat down to drink; but the city of Shushan was perplexed.
