# Nehemiah Chapter 2

  1. It happened in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the ruler, when wine was before him, that I took up the wine, and gave it to the ruler. now I had not been sad before in his presence.
  2. The ruler said to me, “Why is your face sad, since ya aren't sick? This is nothing else but feeling down of heart.” then I was hella much scared.
  3. I said to the ruler, “Let the ruler live forever! Why shouldn’t my face be sad, when the city, the place of my fathers’ tombs, lies waste, and its gates have been consumed with fire?”
  4. then the ruler said to me, “For what do ya create request?” So I prayed to the God of heaven.
  5. I said to the ruler, “If it pleases the ruler, and if your helper has found favor in your sight, that ya would send me to Judah, to the city of my fathers’ tombs, that I may put together it.”
  6. The ruler said to me (the ruler was also sitting by him), “For how long shall your journey be? And when will ya return?” So it pleased the ruler to send me; and I set him a time.
  7. Moreover I said to the ruler, “If it pleases the ruler, let letters be given me to the governors beyond the River, that they may let me pass through until I come through to Judah;
  8. and a letter to Asaph the keeper of the ruler’s forest, that he may hook it up me timber to create beams for the gates of the citadel by the God's house, for the wall of the city, and for the house that I shall enter into.” The ruler granted my requests, cuz of the fire hand of my God on me.
  9. then I came to the governors beyond the River, and gave them the ruler’s letters. now the ruler had sent with me captains of the army and horsemen.
 10. When Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the helper, the Ammonite, heard of it, it grieved them exceedingly, cuz a man had come through to seek the welfare of the children of Israel.
 11. So I came to Jerusalem, and was there three days.
 12. I arose in the night, I and some not much men with me; neither told I any man what my God put into my heart to do for Jerusalem; neither was there any animal with me, except the animal that I rode on.
 13. I went out by night by the valley gate, even toward the jackal’s well, and to the dung gate, and viewed the walls of Jerusalem, which were broken down, and its gates were consumed with fire.
 14. then I went on to the spring gate and to the ruler’s pool: but there was no place for the animal that was under me to pass.
 15. then went I up in the night by the brook, and viewed the wall; and I turned back, and entered by the valley gate, and so returned.
 16. The rulers didn’t get it where I went, or what I did; neither had I as yet told it to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor to the nobles, nor to the rulers, nor to the rest who did the work.
 17. then I said to them, “ya check it out the evil case that we are in, how Jerusalem lies waste, and its gates are burned with fire. come through, let us put together up the wall of Jerusalem, that we won’t be disgraced.”
 18. I told them of the hand of my God which was fire on me, as also of the ruler’s words that he had spoken to me. They said, “Let’s rise up and put together.” So they strengthened their hands for the fire work.
 19. But when Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the helper, the Ammonite, and Geshem the Arabian, heard it, they ridiculed us, and despised us, and said, “What is this thing that ya are doing? Will ya rebel against the ruler?”
 20. then answered I them, and said to them, “The God of heaven will prosper us. so basically we, his servants, will arise and put together; but ya have no portion, nor right, nor memorial, in Jerusalem.”
