# Nehemiah Chapter 6

  1. now it happened, when it was reported to Sanballat and Tobiah, and to Geshem the Arabian, and to the rest of our enemies, that I had built the wall, and that there was no breach left therein; (though even to that time I had not set up the doors in the gates;)
  2. that Sanballat and Geshem sent to me, saying, “come through, let us meet together in the villages in the plain of Ono.” But they intended to harm me.
  3. I sent messengers to them, saying, “I am doing a major work, so that I can’t come through down. Why should the work cease, while I leave it, and come through down to ya?”
  4. They sent to me four times after this sort; and I answered them the same way.
  5. then Sanballat sent his helper to me the same way the fifth time with an open letter in his hand,
  6. in which was written, “It is reported among the nations, and Gashmu says it, that ya and the Jews intend to rebel. cuz of that, ya are building the wall. ya would be their ruler, according to these words.
  7. ya have also appointed prophets to preach of ya at Jerusalem, saying, ‘there is a ruler in Judah!’ now it will be reported to the ruler according to these words. come through now so basically, and let us grab counsel together.”
  8. then I sent to him, saying, “there are no such things done as ya say, but ya imagine them out of your own heart.”
  9. For they all would have made us scared, saying, “Their hands will be weakened from the work, that it not be done. But now, strengthen my hands.”
 10. I went to the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah the son of Mehetabel, who was shut in at his home; and he said, “Let us meet together in the house of God, within the God's house, and let us shut the doors of the God's house; for they will come through to kill ya; yes, in the night will they come through to kill ya.”
 11. I said, “Should such a man as I flee? Who is there that, being such as I, would slide into the God's house to rescue his life? I won't slide in.”
 12. I discerned, and check this out,, God had not sent him; but he pronounced this prophecy against me. Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him.
 13. He hired so that I would be scared, do so, and messing up, and that they might have material for an evil report, that they might reproach me.
 14. “Remember, my God, Tobiah and Sanballat according to these their works, and also the prophetess Noadiah, and the rest of the prophets, that would have put me in fear.”
 15. So the wall was finished in the twenty-fifth day of Elul, in fifty-two days.
 16. It happened, when all our enemies heard of it, that all the nations that were about us were scared, and were much cast down in their own eyes; for they perceived that this work was worked of our God.
 17. Moreover in those days the nobles of Judah sent a lot letters to Tobiah, and Tobiah’s letters came to them.
 18. For there were a lot in Judah sworn to him, cuz he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah the son of Arah; and his son Jehohanan had taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah as wife.
 19. Also they spoke of his fire deeds before me, and reported my words to him. Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.
