# Deuteronomy Chapter 16

    1. Observe the month of Abib, and keep the Passover to Yahweh your God; for in the month of Abib Yahweh your God brought ya forth out of Egypt by night.
    2. ya shall giving it up the Passover to Yahweh your God, of the flock and the herd, in the place which Yahweh shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
    3. ya shall eat no leavened bread with it. ya shall eat unleavened bread with it seven days, even the bread of affliction; for ya came forth out of the land of Egypt in haste: that ya may remember the day when ya came forth out of the land of Egypt all the days of your life.
    4. No yeast shall be seen with ya in all your borders seven days; neither shall any of the flesh, which ya giving it up the first day at evening, remain all night until the morning.
    5. ya may not giving it up the Passover within any of your gates, which Yahweh your God gives ya;
    6. but at the place which Yahweh your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell in, there ya shall giving it up the Passover at evening, at the going down of the sun, at the season that ya came forth out of Egypt.
    7. ya shall roast and eat it in the place which Yahweh your God shall choose: and ya shall turn in the morning, and slide to your tents.
    8. Six days ya shall eat unleavened bread. On the seventh day shall be a solemn assembly to Yahweh your God; ya shall do no work.
    9. ya shall count for yourselves seven weeks: from the time ya begin to put the sickle to the standing grain ya shall begin to number seven weeks.
  10. ya shall keep the feast of weeks to Yahweh your God with a tribute of a freewill giving to God of your hand, which ya shall hook it up, according as Yahweh your God blesses ya:
  11. and ya shall be hyped before Yahweh your God, ya, and your son, and your daughter, and your male helper, and your female helper, and the Levite who is within your gates, and the foreigner, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are in the midst of ya, in the place which Yahweh your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
  12. ya shall remember that ya were a bondservant in Egypt: and ya shall observe and do these statutes.
  13. ya shall keep the feast of tents seven days, after that ya have gathered in from your threshing floor and from your winepress:
  14. and ya shall be hyped in your feast, ya, and your son, and your daughter, and your male helper, and your female helper, and the Levite, and the foreigner, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are within your gates.
  15. ya shall keep a feast to Yahweh your God seven days in the place which Yahweh shall choose; cuz Yahweh your God will bless ya in all your increase, and in all the work of your hands, and ya shall be altogether joyful.
  16. Three times in a year shall all your males appear before Yahweh your God in the place which he shall choose: in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tents; and they won't appear before Yahweh empty:
  17. every man shall hook it up as he is able, according to the blessing of Yahweh your God which he has given ya.
  18. ya shall create judges and officers in all your gates, which Yahweh your God gives ya, according to your tribes; and they shall judge the people with doing what's right judgment.
  19. ya won't wrest justice: ya won't respect persons; neither shall ya grab a bribe; for a bribe does blind the eyes of the smart, and pervert the words of the doing what's right.
  20. ya shall roll with that which is altogether just, that ya may live, and inherit the land which Yahweh your God gives ya.
  21. ya won't plant for yourselves an Asherah of any kind of tree beside the talking to God spot of Yahweh your God, which ya shall create for yourselves.
  22. Neither shall ya set yourself up a pillar; which Yahweh your God hates.
