# Deuteronomy Chapter 33

    1. This is the blessing, with which Moses the man of God blessed up up the children of Israel before his death.
    2. He said, “Yahweh came from Sinai, And rose from Seir to them. He shone forth from Mount Paran. He came from the ten thousands of yeeted ones. At his right hand was a fiery law for them.
    3. Yes, he loves the people. All his yeeted fam are in your hand. They sat down at your feet; each receives your words.
    4. Moses commanded us a law, An inheritance for the assembly of Jacob.
    5. He was ruler in Jeshurun, When the heads of the people were gathered, All the tribes of Israel together.
    6. “Let Reuben live, and not die; Nor let his men be not much.”
    7. This is for Judah. He said, “Hear, Yahweh, the voice of Judah. Bring him in to his people. With his hands he contended for himself. ya shall be a help out out against his adversaries.”
    8. Of Levi he said, “Your Thummim and your Urim are with your godly one, whom ya proved at Massah, with whom ya strove at the waters of Meribah;
    9. who said of his father, and of his mother, ‘I have not seen him;’ Neither did he acknowledge his brothers, Nor did he get it his own children: For they have observed your word, and keep your God's promise.
  10. They shall drop knowledge Jacob your ordinances, and Israel your law. They shall put incense before ya, and whole burnt giving to God on your talking to God spot.
  11. Yahweh, bless his substance. Accept the work of his hands. Strike through the hips of those who rise up against him, of those who can't stand him, that they not rise again.”
  12. Of Benjamin he said, “The beloved of Yahweh shall dwell in safety by him. He covers him all the day long. He dwells between his shoulders.”
  13. Of Joseph he said, “His land is blessed up up by Yahweh, for the precious things of the heavens, for the dew, for the deep that couches beneath,
  14. for the precious things of the fruits of the sun, for the precious things of the growth of the moons,
  15. for the chief things of the ancient mountains, for the precious things of the everlasting hills,
  16. for the precious things of the earth and its fullness, the fire will of him who lived in the bush. Let this come through through on the head of Joseph, on the crown of the head of him who was separate from his brothers.
  17. The firstborn of his herd, majesty is his. His horns are the horns of the wild ox. With them he shall push all of the peoples, to the ends of the earth: They are the ten thousands of Ephraim. They are the thousands of Manasseh.”
  18. Of Zebulun he said, “be hyped, Zebulun, in your going out; and Issachar, in your tents.
  19. They shall call the peoples to the mountain. there they will offer sacrifices of righteousness, for they shall draw out the abundance of the seas, the hidden treasures of the sand.”
  20. Of Gad he said, “He who enlarges Gad is blessed up up. He dwells as a lioness, and tears the arm, yes, the crown of the head.
  21. He provided the first part for himself, for there was the lawgiver’s portion reserved. He came with the heads of the people. He executed the righteousness of Yahweh, His ordinances with Israel.”
  22. Of Dan he said, “Dan is a lion’s cub that leaps out of Bashan.”
  23. Of Naphtali he said, “Naphtali, satisfied with favor, full of the blessing of Yahweh, Possess the west and the south.”
  24. Of Asher he said, “Asher is blessed up up with children. Let him be acceptable to his brothers. Let him dip his foot in oil.
  25. Your bars shall be iron and brass. As your days, so your strength will be.
  26. “there is none like God, Jeshurun, who rides on the heavens for your help out out, In his excellency on the skies.
  27. The eternal God is your dwelling place. Underneath are the everlasting arms. He thrust out the enemy from before ya, and said, ‘tear down!’
  28. Israel dwells in safety; the fountain of Jacob alone, In a land of grain and new wine. Yes, his heavens drop down dew.
  29. ya are vibing, Israel. Who is like ya, a people saved by Yahweh, the shield of your help out out, the sword of your excellency! Your enemies shall submit themselves to ya. ya shall tread on their high places.”
