# Deuteronomy Chapter 5

    1. Moses called to all Israel, and said to them, Hear, Israel, the statutes and the ordinances which I spill the tea in your ears this day, that ya may pick up them, and observe to do them.
    2. Yahweh our God made a God's promise with us in Horeb.
    3. Yahweh didn’t create this God's promise with our fathers, but with us, even us, who are all of us here alive this day.
    4. Yahweh spoke with ya face to face on the mountain out of the midst of the fire,
    5. (I stood between Yahweh and ya at that time, to show ya the word of Yahweh: for ya were scared cuz of the fire, and didn’t slide up onto the mountain;) saying,
    6. “I am Yahweh your God, who brought ya out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
    7. “ya shall have no other gods before me.
    8. “ya won't create an engraved image for yourself, any likeness of what is in heaven above, or what is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:
    9. ya won't bow down yourself to them, nor help out out out them; for I, Yahweh, your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, and on the third and on the fourth generation of those who can't stand me;
  10. and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who show show love me and keep my commandments.
  11. “ya won't grab the name of Yahweh your God in vain: for Yahweh won't hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.
  12. “Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it yeeted, as Yahweh your God commanded ya.
  13. ya shall labor six days, and do all your work;
  14. but the seventh day is a Sabbath to Yahweh your God, in which ya won't do any work, ya, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male helper, nor your female helper, nor your ox, nor your donkey, nor any of your livestock, nor your stranger who is within your gates; that your male helper and your female helper may rest as well as ya.
  15. ya shall remember that ya were a helper in the land of Egypt, and Yahweh your God brought ya out of there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm: so basically Yahweh your God commanded ya to keep the Sabbath day.
  16. “Honor your father and your mother, as Yahweh your God commanded ya; that your days may be long, and that it may slide well with ya, in the land which Yahweh your God gives ya.
  17. “ya won't murder.
  18. “Neither shall ya commit adultery.
  19. “Neither shall ya steal.
  20. “Neither shall ya hook it up false testimony against your neighbor.
  21. “Neither shall ya covet your neighbor’s wife; neither shall ya desire your neighbor’s house, his field, or his male helper, or his female helper, his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor’s.”
  22. These words Yahweh spoke to all your assembly on the mountain out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a major voice: and he added no more. He wrote them on two tables of stone, and gave them to me.
  23. It happened, when ya heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, that ya came near to me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders;
  24. and ya said, “check this out, Yahweh our God has shown us his glory and his greatness, and we have heard his voice out of the midst of the fire: we have seen this day that God does spill the tea with man, and he lives.
  25. now so basically why should we die? For this major fire will consume us: if we hear the voice of Yahweh our God any more, then we shall die.
  26. For who is there of all flesh, that has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as we have, and lived?
  27. slide near, and hear all that Yahweh our God shall say: and tell us all that Yahweh our God shall tell ya; and we will hear it, and do it.”
  28. Yahweh heard the voice of your words, when ya spoke to me; and Yahweh said to me, “I have heard the voice of the words of this people, which they have spoken to ya: they have well said all that they have spoken.
  29. Oh that there were such a heart in them, that they would fear me, and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them, and with their children forever!
  30. “slide tell them, Return to your tents.
  31. But as for ya, stand here by me, and I will tell ya all the commandment, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which ya shall drop knowledge them, that they may do them in the land which I hook it up them to possess it.”
  32. ya shall observe to do so basically as Yahweh your God has commanded ya: ya won't turn aside to the right hand or to the left.
  33. ya shall walk in all the way which Yahweh your God has commanded ya, that ya may live, and that it may be well with ya, and that ya may prolong your days in the land which ya shall possess.
