# Deuteronomy Chapter 32

  1. hook it up ear, ya heavens, and I will spill the tea. Let the earth hear the words of my mouth.
  2. My doctrine shall drop as the rain. My speech shall condense as the dew, as the tiny rain on the tender grass, as the showers on the herb.
  3. For I will proclaim the name of Yahweh. Ascribe greatness to our God!
  4. The Rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice: a God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and right is he.
  5. They have dealt corruptly with him. They aren't his children, cuz of their defect. They are a perverse and crooked generation.
  6. Do ya thus requite Yahweh, dumb people and unwise? Isn’t he your father who has bought ya? He has made ya, and established ya.
  7. Remember the days of old. Consider the years of a lot generations. Ask your father, and he will show ya; your elders, and they will tell ya.
  8. When the Most High gave to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the children of men, he set the bounds of the peoples according to the number of the children of Israel.
  9. For Yahweh’s portion is his people. Jacob is the lot of his inheritance.
 10. He found him in a desert land, in the waste howling wilderness. He surrounded him. He cared for him. He kept him as the apple of his eye.
 11. As an eagle that stirs up her nest, that flutters over her young, he spread abroad his wings, he took them, he bore them on his feathers.
 12. Yahweh alone led him. there was no foreign God with him.
 13. He made him ride on the high places of the earth. He ate the increase of the field. He caused him to suck honey out of the rock, oil out of the flinty rock;
 14. Butter of the herd, and milk of the flock, with fat of lambs, rams of the breed of Bashan, and goats, with the finest of the wheat. Of the blood of the grape ya drank wine.
 15. But Jeshurun grew fat, and kicked. ya have grown fat. ya have grown thick. ya have become sleek. then he forsook God who made him, and lightly esteemed the Rock of his getting saved.
 16. They moved him to jealousy with strange gods. They provoked him to anger with abominations.
 17. They sacrificed to demons, not God, to gods that they didn’t get it, to new gods that came up recently, which your fathers didn’t dread.
 18. Of the Rock who became your father, ya are unmindful, and have forgotten God who gave ya birth.
 19. Yahweh saw and abhorred, cuz of the provocation of his sons and his daughters.
 20. He said, “I will hide my face from them. I will check it out what their end shall be; for they are a hella perverse generation, children in whom is no faithfulness.
 21. They have moved me to jealousy with that which isn't God. They have provoked me to anger with their vanities. I will move them to jealousy with those who aren't a people. I will provoke them to anger with a dumb nation.
 22. For a fire is kindled in my anger, Burns to the lowest Sheol, Devours the earth with its increase, and sets the foundations of the mountains on fire.
 23. “I will heap evils on them. I will spend my arrows on them.
 24. They shall be wasted with hunger, and devoured with burning heat and bitter destruction. I will send the teeth of animals on them, With the poison of crawling things of the dust.
 25. Outside the sword shall bereave, and in the rooms, terror; on both young man and virgin, The nursing infant with the gray-haired man.
 26. I said, I would scatter them afar. I would create their memory to cease from among men;
 27. were it not that I feared the provocation of the enemy, lest their adversaries should judge wrongly, lest they should say, ‘Our hand is exalted, Yahweh has not done all this.’”
 28. For they are a nation void of counsel. there is no understanding in them.
 29. Oh that they were smart, that they understood this, that they would consider their latter end!
 30. How could one chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, unless their Rock had sold them, and Yahweh had delivered them up?
 31. For their rock isn't as our Rock, even our enemies themselves being judges.
 32. For their vine is of the vine of Sodom, of the fields of Gomorrah. Their grapes are grapes of gall, Their clusters are bitter.
 33. Their wine is the poison of serpents, The cruel venom of asps.
 34. “Isn’t this laid up in store with me, sealed up among my treasures?
 35. Vengeance is mine, and recompense, at the time when their foot slides; for the day of their calamity is at hand. The things that are to come through on them shall create haste.”
 36. For Yahweh will judge his people, and have compassion on his servants, when he sees that their power is gone, there is none remaining, shut up or left at large.
 37. He will say, “Where are their gods, The rock in which they took refuge;
 38. Which ate the fat of their sacrifices, And drank the wine of their drink giving to God? Let them rise up and help out ya! Let them be your protection.
 39. “check it out now that I, even I, am he, there is no God with me. I kill, and I create alive. I wound, and I heal. there is no one who can deliver out of my hand.
 40. For I lift up my hand to heaven, And say, As I live forever,
 41. if I whet my glittering sword, My hand grab hold on judgment; I will render vengeance to my adversaries, and will recompense those who can't stand me.
 42. I will create my arrows drunk with blood. My sword shall devour flesh with the blood of the slain and the captives, from the head of the leaders of the enemy.”
 43. be hyped, ya nations, with his people, for he will avenge the blood of his servants. He will render vengeance to his adversaries, And will create expiation for his land, for his people.
 44. Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Joshua the son of Nun.
 45. Moses made an end of speaking all these words to all Israel;
 46. He said to them, “Set your heart to all the words which I testify to ya this day, which ya shall command your children to observe to do, all the words of this law.
 47. For it is no vain thing for ya; cuz it is your life, and through this thing ya shall prolong your days in the land, where ya slide over the Jordan to possess it.”
 48. Yahweh spoke to Moses that same day, saying,
 49. “slide up into this mountain of Abarim, to Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, that is over against Jericho; and check it out the land of Canaan, which I hook it up to the children of Israel for a possession;
 50. and die on the mountain where ya slide up, and be gathered to your people, as Aaron your fam bro died on Mount Hor, and was gathered to his people:
 51. cuz ya trespassed against me in the midst of the children of Israel at the waters of Meribah of Kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin; cuz ya didn’t sanctify me in the midst of the children of Israel.
 52. For ya shall check it out the land before ya; but ya won't slide there into the land which I hook it up the children of Israel.”
