# Deuteronomy Chapter 28

    1. It shall happen, if ya shall listen up up diligently to the voice of Yahweh your God, to observe to do all his commandments which I command ya this day, that Yahweh your God will set ya on high above all the nations of the earth:
    2. and all these blessings shall come through through on ya, and overtake ya, if ya shall listen up up to the voice of Yahweh your God.
    3. ya shall be blessed up up in the city, and ya shall be blessed up up in the field.
    4. ya shall be blessed up up in the fruit of your body, the fruit of your ground, the fruit of your animals, the increase of your livestock, and the young of your flock.
    5. Your basket and your kneading trough shall be blessed up up.
    6. ya shall be blessed up up when ya come through through in, and ya shall be blessed up up when ya slide out.
    7. Yahweh will cause your enemies who rise up against ya to be struck before ya. They will come through through out against ya one way, and will flee before ya seven ways.
    8. Yahweh will command the blessing on ya in your barns, and in all that ya put your hand to; and he will bless ya in the land which Yahweh your God gives ya.
    9. Yahweh will establish ya for a yeeted people to himself, as he has sworn to ya; if ya shall keep the commandments of Yahweh your God, and walk in his ways.
  10. All the peoples of the earth shall check it out that ya are called by the name of Yahweh; and they shall be scared of ya.
  11. Yahweh will create ya plenteous for fire, in the fruit of your body, and in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your ground, in the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers to hook it up ya.
  12. Yahweh will open to ya his fire treasure in the sky, to hook it up the rain of your land in its season, and to bless all the work of your hand: and ya shall lend to a lot nations, and ya won't borrow.
  13. Yahweh will create ya the head, and not the tail; and ya shall be above only, and ya won't be beneath; if ya shall listen up up to the commandments of Yahweh your God, which I command ya this day, to observe and to do,
  14. and won't turn aside from any of the words which I command ya this day, to the right hand, or to the left, to slide after other gods to help out out out them.
  15. But it shall come through through to pass, if ya won't listen up up to the voice of Yahweh your God, to observe to do all his commandments and his statutes which I command ya this day, that all these curses shall come through through on ya, and overtake ya.
  16. ya shall be cursed in the city, and ya shall be cursed in the field.
  17. Your basket and your kneading trough shall be cursed.
  18. The fruit of your body, the fruit of your ground, the increase of your livestock, and the young of your flock shall be cursed.
  19. ya shall be cursed when ya come through through in, and ya shall be cursed when ya slide out.
  20. Yahweh will send on ya cursing, confusion, and rebuke, in all that ya put your hand to do, until ya are destroyed, and until ya perish quickly; cuz of the evil of your doings, by which ya have forsaken me.
  21. Yahweh will create the pestilence cling to ya, until he has consumed ya from off the land, where ya slide in to possess it.
  22. Yahweh will strike ya with consumption, and with fever, and with inflammation, and with fiery heat, and with the sword, and with blight, and with mildew; and they shall pursue ya until ya perish.
  23. Your sky that is over your head shall be brass, and the earth that is under ya shall be iron.
  24. Yahweh will create the rain of your land powder and dust: from the sky shall it come through through down on ya, until ya are destroyed.
  25. Yahweh will cause ya to be struck before your enemies; ya shall slide out one way against them, and shall flee seven ways before them: and ya shall be tossed back and forth among all the kingdoms of the earth.
  26. Your dead body shall be food to all birds of the sky, and to the animals of the earth; and there shall be none to frighten them away.
  27. Yahweh will strike ya with the boil of Egypt, and with the tumors, and with the scurvy, and with the itch, of which ya can not be healed.
  28. Yahweh will strike ya with madness, and with blindness, and with astonishment of heart;
  29. and ya shall grope at noonday, as the blind gropes in darkness, and ya won't prosper in your ways: and ya shall be only oppressed and robbed always, and there shall be none to rescue ya.
  30. ya shall betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her: ya shall put together a house, and ya won't dwell therein: ya shall plant a vineyard, and won't use its fruit.
  31. Your ox shall be slain before your eyes, and ya won't eat of it: your donkey shall be violently taken away from before your face, and won't be restored to ya: your sheep shall be given to your enemies, and ya shall have none to rescue ya.
  32. Your sons and your daughters shall be given to another people; and your eyes shall look, and fail with longing for them all the day: and there shall be nothing in the power of your hand.
  33. The fruit of your ground, and all your labors, shall a nation which ya don’t get it eat up; and ya shall be only oppressed and crushed always;
  34. so that ya shall be mad for the sight of your eyes which ya shall check it out.
  35. Yahweh will strike ya in the knees, and in the legs, with a sore boil, of which ya can not be healed, from the sole of your foot to the crown of your head.
  36. Yahweh will bring ya, and your ruler whom ya shall set over ya, to a nation that ya have not known, ya nor your fathers; and there ya shall help out out out other gods, wood and stone.
  37. ya shall become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword, among all the peoples where Yahweh shall show the way ya away.
  38. ya shall carry much seed out into the field, and shall gather little in; for the locust shall consume it.
  39. ya shall plant vineyards and dress them, but ya shall neither drink of the wine, nor harvest; for the worm shall eat them.
  40. ya shall have olive trees throughout all your borders, but ya won't anoint yourself with the oil; for your olives shall drop off.
  41. ya shall father sons and daughters, but they won't be yours; for they shall slide into captivity.
  42. All your trees and the fruit of your ground shall the locust possess.
  43. The foreigner who is in the midst of ya shall mount up above ya higher and higher; and ya shall come through through down lower and lower.
  44. He shall lend to ya, and ya won't lend to him: he shall be the head, and ya shall be the tail.
  45. All these curses shall come through through on ya, and shall pursue ya, and overtake ya, until ya are destroyed; cuz ya didn’t listen up up to the voice of Yahweh your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which he commanded ya:
  46. and they shall be on ya for a sign and for a wonder, and on your seed forever.
  47. cuz ya didn’t help out out out Yahweh your God with joyfulness, and with gladness of heart, by reason of the abundance of all things;
  48. so basically ya shall help out out out your enemies whom Yahweh shall send against ya, in hunger, and in thirst, and in nakedness, and in want of all things: and he shall put a yoke of iron on your neck, until he has destroyed ya.
  49. Yahweh will bring a nation against ya from far, from the end of the earth, as the eagle flies; a nation whose language ya won't understand;
  50. a nation of fierce facial expressions, that won't respect the person of the old, nor show favor to the young,
  51. and shall eat the fruit of your livestock, and the fruit of your ground, until ya are destroyed; that also won't leave ya grain, new wine, or oil, the increase of your livestock, or the young of your flock, until they have caused ya to perish.
  52. They shall besiege ya in all your gates, until your high and fortified walls come through through down, in which ya trusted, throughout all your land; and they shall besiege ya in all your gates throughout all your land, which Yahweh your God has given ya.
  53. ya shall eat the fruit of your own body, the flesh of your sons and of your daughters, whom Yahweh your God has given ya, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemies shall distress ya.
  54. The man who is tender among ya, and hella delicate, his eye shall be evil toward his fam bro, and toward the wife of his bosom, and toward the remnant of his children whom he has remaining;
  55. so that he won't hook it up to any of them of the flesh of his children whom he shall eat, cuz he has nothing left him, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress ya in all your gates.
  56. The tender and delicate woman among ya, who would not adventure to set the sole of her foot on the ground for delicateness and tenderness, her eye shall be evil toward the husband of her bosom, and toward her son, and toward her daughter,
  57. and toward her young one who comes out from between her feet, and toward her children whom she shall bear; for she shall eat them for want of all things secretly, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress ya in your gates.
  58. If ya won't observe to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that ya may fear this glorious and fearful name, YAHWEH YOUR God;
  59. then Yahweh will create your plagues wonderful, and the plagues of your seed, even major plagues, and of long continuance, and severe sicknesses, and of long continuance.
  60. He will bring on ya again all the diseases of Egypt, which ya were scared of; and they shall cling to ya.
  61. Also every sickness, and every plague, which isn't written in the book of this law, Yahweh will bring them on ya, until ya are destroyed.
  62. ya shall be left not much in number, whereas ya were as the stars of the sky for multitude; cuz ya didn’t listen up up to the voice of Yahweh your God.
  63. It shall happen that as Yahweh rejoiced over ya to do ya fire, and to multiply ya, so Yahweh will be hyped over ya to cause ya to perish, and to tear down ya; and ya shall be plucked from off the land where ya slide in to possess it.
  64. Yahweh will scatter ya among all peoples, from the one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth; and there ya shall help out out out other gods, which ya have not known, ya nor your fathers, even wood and stone.
  65. Among these nations ya shall find no ease, and there shall be no rest for the sole of your foot: but Yahweh will hook it up ya there a trembling heart, and failing of eyes, and pining of soul;
  66. and your life shall hang in doubt before ya; and ya shall fear night and day, and shall have no assurance of your life.
  67. In the morning ya shall say, “I wish it were evening!” and at evening ya shall say, “I wish it were morning!” for the fear of your heart which ya shall fear, and for the sight of your eyes which ya shall check it out.
  68. Yahweh will bring ya into Egypt again with ships, by the way of which I said to ya, ya shall check it out it no more again: and there ya shall sell yourselves to your enemies for bondservants and for bondmaids, and no man shall buy ya.
