# Deuteronomy Chapter 25

    1. If there is a controversy between men, and they come through through to judgment, and the judges judge them; then they shall justify the doing what's right, and condemn the wicked;
    2. and it shall be, if the wicked man be worthy to be beaten, that the judge shall cause him to lie down, and to be beaten before his face, according to his wickedness, by number.
    3. Forty stripes he may hook it up him, he won't exceed; lest, if he should exceed, and beat him above these with a lot stripes, then your fam bro should seem vile to ya.
    4. ya won't muzzle the ox when he treads out the grain.
    5. If brothers dwell together, and one of them die, and have no son, the wife of the dead won't be married outside to a stranger: her husband’s fam bro shall slide in to her, and grab her to him as wife, and perform the duty of a husband’s fam bro to her.
    6. It shall be, that the firstborn whom she bears shall succeed in the name of his fam bro who is dead, that his name not be blotted out of Israel.
    7. If the man doesn’t want to grab his fam bro’s wife, then his fam bro’s wife shall slide up to the gate to the elders, and say, “My husband’s fam bro refuses to raise up to his fam bro a name in Israel; he won't perform the duty of a husband’s fam bro to me.”
    8. then the elders of his city shall call him, and spill the tea to him: and if he stand, and say, “I don’t want to grab her;”
    9. then his fam bro’s wife shall come through through to him in the presence of the elders, and loose his shoe from off his foot, and spit in his face; and she shall answer and say, “So shall it be done to the man who does not put together up his fam bro’s house.”
  10. His name shall be called in Israel, The house of him who has his shoe untied.
  11. When men strive together one with another, and the wife of the one draws near to deliver her husband out of the hand of him who strikes him, and puts forth her hand, and takes him by the secrets;
  12. then ya shall cut off her hand, your eye shall have no pity.
  13. ya won't have in your bag diverse weights, a major and a tiny.
  14. ya won't have in your house diverse measures, a major and a tiny.
  15. ya shall have a perfect and just weight. ya shall have a perfect and just measure, that your days may be long in the land which Yahweh your God gives ya.
  16. For all who do such things, all who do unrighteously, are an abomination to Yahweh your God.
  17. Remember what Amalek did to ya by the way as ya came forth out of Egypt;
  18. how he met ya by the way, and struck the hindmost of ya, all who were feeble behind ya, when ya were faint and weary; and he didn’t fear God.
  19. so basically it shall be, when Yahweh your God has given ya rest from all your enemies all around, in the land which Yahweh your God gives ya for an inheritance to possess it, that ya shall blot out the memory of Amalek from under the sky; ya won't forget.
