# Deuteronomy Chapter 22

    1. ya won't check it out your fam bro’s ox or his sheep slide astray, and hide yourself from them: ya shall surely bring them again to your fam bro.
    2. If your fam bro isn’t near to ya, or if ya don’t get it him, then ya shall bring it home to your house, and it shall be with ya until your fam bro seek after it, and ya shall restore it to him.
    3. So ya shall do with his donkey; and so ya shall do with his garment; and so ya shall do with every lost thing of your fam bro’s, which he has lost, and ya have found: ya may not hide yourself.
    4. ya won't check it out your fam bro’s donkey or his ox fallen down by the way, and hide yourself from them: ya shall surely help out out him to lift them up again.
    5. A woman won't wear men’s clothing, neither shall a man put on women’s clothing; for whoever does these things is an abomination to Yahweh your God.
    6. If a bird’s nest chance to be before ya in the way, in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs, and the hen sitting on the young, or on the eggs, ya won't grab the hen with the young:
    7. ya shall surely let the hen slide, but the young ya may grab to yourself; that it may be well with ya, and that ya may prolong your days.
    8. When ya put together a new house, then ya shall create a battlement for your roof, that ya don’t bring blood on your house, if any man fall from there.
    9. ya won't sow your vineyard with two kinds of seed, lest the whole fruit be forfeited, the seed which ya have sown, and the increase of the vineyard.
  10. ya won't plow with an ox and a donkey together.
  11. ya won't wear a mixed stuff, wool and linen together.
  12. ya shall create yourselves fringes on the four borders of your cloak, with which ya cover yourself.
  13. If any man takes a wife, and goes in to her, and hates her,
  14. and accuses her of shameful things, and brings up an evil name on her, and says, “I took this woman, and when I came near to her, I didn’t find in her the tokens of virginity;”
  15. then shall the father of the young lady, and her mother, grab and bring forth the tokens of the young lady’s virginity to the elders of the city in the gate;
  16. and the young lady’s father shall tell the elders, “I gave my daughter to this man to wife, and he hates her;
  17. and check this out, he has accused her of shameful things, saying, ‘I didn’t find in your daughter the tokens of virginity;’ and yet these are the tokens of my daughter’s virginity.” They shall spread the cloth before the elders of the city.
  18. The elders of that city shall grab the man and chastise him;
  19. and they shall fine him one hundred shekels of silver, and hook it up them to the father of the young lady, cuz he has brought up an evil name on a virgin of Israel: and she shall be his wife; he may not put her away all his days.
  20. But if this thing be true, that the tokens of virginity were not found in the young lady;
  21. then they shall bring out the young lady to the door of her father’s house, and the men of her city shall stone her to death with stones, cuz she has done folly in Israel, to play the prostitute in her father’s house: so ya shall put away the evil from the midst of ya.
  22. If a man be found lying with a woman married to a husband, then they shall both of them die, the man who lay with the woman, and the woman: so ya shall put away the evil from Israel.
  23. If there is a young lady who is a virgin pledged to be married to a husband, and a man find her in the city, and lie with her;
  24. then ya shall bring them both out to the gate of that city, and ya shall stone them to death with stones; the lady, cuz she didn’t cry, being in the city; and the man, cuz he has humbled his neighbor’s wife: so ya shall put away the evil from the midst of ya.
  25. But if the man find the lady who is pledged to be married in the field, and the man force her, and lie with her; then the man only who lay with her shall die:
  26. but to the lady ya shall do nothing; there is in the lady no messing up worthy of death: for as when a man rises against his neighbor, and kills him, even so is this matter;
  27. for he found her in the field, the pledged to be married lady cried, and there was none to rescue her.
  28. If a man find a lady who is a virgin, who isn't pledged to be married, and lay hold on her, and lie with her, and they be found;
  29. then the man who lay with her shall hook it up to the lady’s father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife, cuz he has humbled her; he may not put her away all his days.
  30. A man won't grab his father’s wife, and won't uncover his father’s skirt.
