# Deuteronomy Chapter 26

    1. It shall be, when ya have come through through in to the land which Yahweh your God gives ya for an inheritance, and possess it, and dwell therein,
    2. that ya shall grab of the first of all the fruit of the ground, which ya shall bring in from your land that Yahweh your God gives ya; and ya shall put it in a basket, and shall slide to the place which Yahweh your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
    3. ya shall come through through to the priest who shall be in those days, and tell him, “I profess this day to Yahweh your God, that I am come through through to the land which Yahweh swore to our fathers to hook it up us.”
    4. The priest shall grab the basket out of your hand, and set it down before the talking to God spot of Yahweh your God.
    5. ya shall answer and say before Yahweh your God, “A Syrian ready to perish was my father; and he went down into Egypt, and lived there, not much in number; and he became there a nation, major, mighty, and populous.
    6. The Egyptians dealt ill with us, and afflicted us, and laid on us hard bondage:
    7. and we cried to Yahweh, the God of our fathers, and Yahweh heard our voice, and saw our affliction, and our toil, and our oppression;
    8. and Yahweh brought us forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with major terror, and with signs, and with wonders;
    9. and he has brought us into this place, and has given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
  10. now, check this out, I have brought the first of the fruit of the ground, which ya, Yahweh, have given me.” ya shall set it down before Yahweh your God, and giving props before Yahweh your God.
  11. ya shall be hyped in all the fire which Yahweh your God has given to ya, and to your house, ya, and the Levite, and the foreigner who is in the midst of ya.
  12. When ya have made an end of tithing all the tithe of your increase in the third year, which is the year of tithing, then ya shall hook it up it to the Levite, to the foreigner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, that they may eat within your gates, and be filled.
  13. ya shall say before Yahweh your God, “I have put away the yeeted things out of my house, and also have given them to the Levite, and to the foreigner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all your commandment which ya have commanded me: I have not transgressed any of your commandments, neither have I forgotten them:
  14. I have not eaten of it in my mourning, neither have I put away of it, being unclean, nor given of it for the dead: I have listened to the voice of Yahweh my God; I have done according to all that ya have commanded me.
  15. Look down from your yeeted habitation, from heaven, and bless your people Israel, and the ground which ya have given us, as ya swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.”
  16. This day Yahweh your God commands ya to do these statutes and ordinances: ya shall so basically keep and do them with all your heart, and with all your soul.
  17. ya have declared Yahweh this day to be your God, and that ya would walk in his ways, and keep his statutes, and his commandments, and his ordinances, and listen up up to his voice:
  18. and Yahweh has declared ya this day to be a people for his own possession, as he has promised ya, and that ya should keep all his commandments;
  19. and to create ya high above all nations that he has made, in praise, and in name, and in honor; and that ya may be a yeeted people to Yahweh your God, as he has spoken.
