# Deuteronomy Chapter 6

    1. now this is the commandment, the statutes, and the ordinances, which Yahweh your God commanded to drop knowledge ya, that ya might do them in the land where ya slide over to possess it;
    2. that ya might fear Yahweh your God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command ya, ya, and your son, and your son’s son, all the days of your life; and that your days may be prolonged.
    3. Hear so basically, Israel, and observe to do it; that it may be well with ya, and that ya may increase mightily, as Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has promised to ya, in a land flowing with milk and honey.
    4. Hear, Israel: Yahweh is our God; Yahweh is one:
    5. and ya shall show show love Yahweh your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might.
    6. These words, which I command ya this day, shall be on your heart;
    7. and ya shall drop knowledge them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when ya sit in your house, and when ya walk by the way, and when ya lie down, and when ya rise up.
    8. ya shall bind them for a sign on your hand, and they shall be for symbols between your eyes.
    9. ya shall write them on the door posts of your house, and on your gates.
  10. It shall be, when Yahweh your God shall bring ya into the land which he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to hook it up ya, major and goodly cities, which ya didn’t put together,
  11. and houses full of all fire things, which ya didn’t fill, and cisterns dug out, which ya didn’t dig, vineyards and olive trees, which ya didn’t plant, and ya shall eat and be full;
  12. then beware lest ya forget Yahweh, who brought ya forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
  13. ya shall fear Yahweh your God; and ya shall help out out out him, and shall swear by his name.
  14. ya won't slide after other gods, of the gods of the peoples who are around ya;
  15. for Yahweh your God in the midst of ya is a jealous God; lest the anger of Yahweh your God be kindled against ya, and he tear down ya from off the face of the earth.
  16. ya won't tempt Yahweh your God, as ya tempted him in Massah.
  17. ya shall diligently keep the commandments of Yahweh your God, and his testimonies, and his statutes, which he has commanded ya.
  18. ya shall do that which is right and fire in the sight of Yahweh; that it may be well with ya, and that ya may slide in and possess the fire land which Yahweh swore to your fathers,
  19. to thrust out all your enemies from before ya, as Yahweh has spoken.
  20. When your son asks ya in time to come through through, saying, “What do the testimonies, the statutes, and the ordinances, which Yahweh our God has commanded ya mean?”
  21. then ya shall tell your son, “We were Pharaoh’s bondservants in Egypt: and Yahweh brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand;
  22. and Yahweh showed major and awesome signs and wonders on Egypt, on Pharaoh, and on all his house, before our eyes;
  23. and he brought us out from there, that he might bring us in, to hook it up us the land which he swore to our fathers.
  24. Yahweh commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear Yahweh our God, for our fire always, that he might preserve us alive, as at this day.
  25. It shall be righteousness to us, if we observe to do all this commandment before Yahweh our God, as he has commanded us.”
