# Deuteronomy Chapter 15

    1. At the end of every seven years ya shall create a release.
    2. This is the way of the release: every creditor shall release that which he has lent to his neighbor; he won't exact it of his neighbor and his fam bro; cuz Yahweh’s release has been proclaimed.
    3. Of a foreigner ya may exact it: but whatever of your is with your fam bro your hand shall release.
    4. but like there shall be no broke with ya; (for Yahweh will surely bless ya in the land which Yahweh your God gives ya for an inheritance to possess it;)
    5. if only ya diligently listen up up to the voice of Yahweh your God, to observe to do all this commandment which I command ya this day.
    6. For Yahweh your God will bless ya, as he promised ya: and ya shall lend to a lot nations, but ya won't borrow; and ya shall rule over a lot nations, but they won't rule over ya.
    7. If a broke man, one of your brothers, is with ya within any of your gates in your land which Yahweh your God gives ya, ya won't harden your heart, nor shut your hand from your broke fam bro;
    8. but ya shall surely open your hand to him, and shall surely lend him sufficient for his need, which he lacks.
    9. Beware that there not be a base thought in your heart, saying, “The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand;” and your eye be evil against your broke fam bro, and ya hook it up him nothing; and he cry to Yahweh against ya, and it be messing up to ya.
  10. ya shall surely hook it up him, and your heart won't be grieved when ya hook it up to him; cuz that for this thing Yahweh your God will bless ya in all your work, and in all that ya put your hand to.
  11. For the broke will never cease out of the land: so basically I command ya, saying, ya shall surely open your hand to your fam bro, to your needy, and to your broke, in your land.
  12. If your fam bro, a Hebrew man, or a Hebrew woman, is sold to ya, and serves ya six years; then in the seventh year ya shall let him slide free from ya.
  13. When ya let him slide free from ya, ya won't let him slide empty:
  14. ya shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, and out of your threshing floor, and out of your winepress; as Yahweh your God has blessed up up ya, ya shall hook it up to him.
  15. ya shall remember that ya were a bondservant in the land of Egypt, and Yahweh your God redeemed ya: so basically I command ya this thing today.
  16. It shall be, if he tells ya, “I won't slide out from ya;” cuz he loves ya and your house, cuz he is well with ya;
  17. then ya shall grab an awl, and thrust it through his ear to the door, and he shall be your helper forever. Also to your female helper ya shall do likewise.
  18. It won't seem hard to ya, when ya let him slide free from ya; for to the double of the hire of a hireling has he served ya six years: and Yahweh your God will bless ya in all that ya do.
  19. All the firstborn males that are born of your herd and of your flock ya shall sanctify to Yahweh your God: ya shall do no work with the firstborn of your herd, nor shear the firstborn of your flock.
  20. ya shall eat it before Yahweh your God year by year in the place which Yahweh shall choose, ya and your household.
  21. If it has any blemish, is lame or blind, or has any defect whatever, ya won't giving it up it to Yahweh your God.
  22. ya shall eat it within your gates: the unclean and the clean shall eat it alike, as the gazelle, and as the hart.
  23. Only ya won't eat its blood; ya shall pour it out on the ground as water.
