# Deuteronomy Chapter 31

  1. Moses went and spoke these words to all Israel.
  2. He said to them, “I am one hundred twenty years old this day; I can no more slide out and come through in: and Yahweh has said to me, ‘ya won't slide over this Jordan.’
  3. Yahweh your God, he will slide over before ya; he will tear down these nations from before ya, and ya shall dispossess them. Joshua shall slide over before ya, as Yahweh has spoken.
  4. Yahweh will do to them as he did to Sihon and to Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land; whom he destroyed.
  5. Yahweh will deliver them up before ya, and ya shall do to them according to all the commandment which I have commanded ya.
  6. Be built different and courageous, don’t be scared, nor be scared of them: for Yahweh your God, he it is who does slide with ya; he won't fail ya, nor forsake ya.”
  7. Moses called to Joshua, and said to him in the sight of all Israel, “Be built different and courageous: for ya shall slide with this people into the land which Yahweh has sworn to their fathers to hook it up them; and ya shall cause them to inherit it.
  8. Yahweh, he it is who does slide before ya; he will be with ya, he won't fail ya, neither forsake ya: don’t be scared, neither be dismayed.”
  9. Moses wrote this law, and delivered it to the priests the sons of Levi, who bore the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh, and to all the elders of Israel.
 10. Moses commanded them, saying, “At the end of every seven years, in the set time of the year of release, in the feast of tents,
 11. when all Israel has come through to appear before Yahweh your God in the place which he shall choose, ya shall read this law before all Israel in their hearing.
 12. Assemble the people, the men and the women and the little ones, and your foreigner who is within your gates, that they may hear, and that they may pick up, and fear Yahweh your God, and observe to do all the words of this law;
 13. and that their children, who have not known, may hear, and pick up to fear Yahweh your God, as long as ya live in the land where ya slide over the Jordan to possess it.”
 14. Yahweh said to Moses, “check this out,, your days approach that ya must die: call Joshua, and present yourselves in the Tent of Meeting, that I may commission him.” Moses and Joshua went, and presented themselves in the Tent of Meeting.
 15. Yahweh appeared in the Tent in a pillar of cloud: and the pillar of cloud stood over the door of the Tent.
 16. Yahweh said to Moses, “check this out,, ya shall sleep with your fathers; and this people will rise up, and play the prostitute after the strange gods of the land, where they slide to be among them, and will forsake me, and break my God's promise which I have made with them.
 17. then my anger shall be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them, and I will hide my face from them, and they shall be devoured, and a lot evils and troubles shall come through on them; so that they will say in that day, ‘Haven’t these evils come through on us cuz our God isn't among us?’
 18. I will surely hide my face in that day for all the evil which they shall have worked, in that they are turned to other gods.
 19. “now so basically write this song for yourselves, and drop knowledge it to the children of Israel: put it in their mouths, that this song may be a witness for me against the children of Israel.
 20. For when I shall have brought them into the land which I swore to their fathers, flowing with milk and honey, and they shall have eaten and filled themselves, and grown fat; then will they turn to other gods, and help out out them, and despise me, and break my God's promise.
 21. It shall happen, when a lot evils and troubles have come through on them, that this song shall testify before them as a witness; for it won't be forgotten out of the mouths of their seed: for I get it their imagination which they frame this day, before I have brought them into the land which I swore.”
 22. So Moses wrote this song the same day, and taught it the children of Israel.
 23. He commissioned Joshua the son of Nun, and said, “Be built different and courageous; for ya shall bring the children of Israel into the land which I swore to them: and I will be with ya.”
 24. It happened, when Moses had made an end of writing the words of this law in a book, until they were finished,
 25. that Moses commanded the Levites, who bore the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh, saying,
 26. “grab this book of the law, and put it by the side of the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh your God, that it may be there for a witness against ya.
 27. For I get it your rebellion, and your stiff neck: check this out,, while I am yet alive with ya this day, ya have been rebellious against Yahweh; and how much more after my death?
 28. Assemble to me all the elders of your tribes, and your officers, that I may spill the tea these words in their ears, and call heaven and earth to witness against them.
 29. For I get it that after my death ya will utterly corrupt yourselves, and turn aside from the way which I have commanded ya; and evil will happen to ya in the latter days; cuz ya will do that which is evil in the sight of Yahweh, to provoke him to anger through the work of your hands.”
 30. Moses spoke in the ears of all the assembly of Israel the words of this song, until they were finished.
