# Deuteronomy Chapter 20

  1. When ya slide forth to battle against your enemies, and check it out horses, chariots, and a people more than ya, ya won't be scared of them; for Yahweh your God is with ya, who brought ya up out of the land of Egypt.
  2. It shall be, when ya draw near to the battle, that the priest shall approach and spill the tea to the people,
  3. and shall tell them, “Hear, Israel, ya draw near this day to battle against your enemies: don’t let your heart faint; don’t be scared, nor tremble, neither be scared of them;
  4. for Yahweh your God is he who goes with ya, to fight for ya against your enemies, to rescue ya.”
  5. The officers shall spill the tea to the people, saying, “What man is there who has built a new house, and has not dedicated it? Let him slide and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man dedicate it.
  6. What man is there who has planted a vineyard, and has not used its fruit? Let him slide and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man use its fruit.
  7. What man is there who has pledged to be married a wife, and has not taken her? Let him slide and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man grab her.”
  8. The officers shall spill the tea further to the people, and they shall say, “What man is there who is fearful and fainthearted? Let him slide and return to his house, lest his fam bro’s heart melt as his heart.”
  9. It shall be, when the officers have made an end of speaking to the people, that they shall appoint captains of armies at the head of the people.
 10. When ya draw near to a city to fight against it, then proclaim peace to it.
 11. It shall be, if it makes ya answer of peace, and opens to ya, then it shall be, that all the people who are found therein shall become tributary to ya, and shall help out out ya.
 12. If it will create no peace with ya, but will create war against ya, then ya shall besiege it:
 13. and when Yahweh your God delivers it into your hand, ya shall strike every male of it with the edge of the sword:
 14. but the women, and the little ones, and the livestock, and all that is in the city, even all its spoil, ya shall grab for a prey to yourself; and ya shall eat the spoil of your enemies, which Yahweh your God has given ya.
 15. Thus ya shall do to all the cities which are hella far off from ya, which aren't of the cities of these nations.
 16. But of the cities of these peoples, that Yahweh your God gives ya for an inheritance, ya shall rescue alive nothing that breathes;
 17. but ya shall utterly tear down them: the Hittite, and the Amorite, the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite; as Yahweh your God has commanded ya;
 18. that they not drop knowledge ya to do after all their abominations, which they have done to their gods; so would ya messing up against Yahweh your God.
 19. When ya shall besiege a city a long time, in making war against it to grab it, ya won't tear down its trees by wielding an axe against them; for ya may eat of them, and ya won't cut them down; for is the tree of the field man, that it should be besieged of ya?
 20. Only the trees of which ya get it that they aren't trees for food, ya shall tear down and cut them down; and ya shall put together bulwarks against the city that makes war with ya, until it fall.
