# Deuteronomy Chapter 17

    1. ya won't giving it up to Yahweh your God an ox, or a sheep, in which is a blemish, or anything evil; for that is an abomination to Yahweh your God.
    2. If there is found in the midst of ya, within any of your gates which Yahweh your God gives ya, man or woman, who does that which is evil in the sight of Yahweh your God, in transgressing his God's promise,
    3. and has gone and served other gods, and worshiped them, or the sun, or the moon, or any of the army of the sky, which I have not commanded;
    4. and it be told ya, and ya have heard of it, then ya shall inquire diligently; and check this out, if it be true, and the thing certain, that such abomination is done in Israel,
    5. then ya shall bring forth that man or that woman, who has done this evil thing, to your gates, even the man or the woman; and ya shall stone them to death with stones.
    6. At the mouth of two witnesses, or three witnesses, shall he who is to die be put to death; at the mouth of one witness he won't be put to death.
    7. The hand of the witnesses shall be first on him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people. So ya shall put away the evil from the midst of ya.
    8. If there arises a matter too hard for ya in judgment, between blood and blood, between plea and plea, and between stroke and stroke, being matters of controversy within your gates; then ya shall arise, and slide up to the place which Yahweh your God shall choose;
    9. and ya shall come through through to the priests the Levites, and to the judge who shall be in those days: and ya shall inquire; and they shall show ya the sentence of judgment.
  10. ya shall do according to the tenor of the sentence which they shall show ya from that place which Yahweh shall choose; and ya shall observe to do according to all that they shall drop knowledge ya:
  11. according to the tenor of the law which they shall drop knowledge ya, and according to the judgment which they shall tell ya, ya shall do; ya won't turn aside from the sentence which they shall show ya, to the right hand, nor to the left.
  12. The man who does presumptuously, in not listening to the priest who stands to minister there before Yahweh your God, or to the judge, even that man shall die: and ya shall put away the evil from Israel.
  13. All the people shall hear, and fear, and do no more presumptuously.
  14. When ya have come through through to the land which Yahweh your God gives ya, and shall possess it, and shall dwell therein, and shall say, “I will set a ruler over me, like all the nations that are around me;”
  15. ya shall surely set him ruler over yourselves, whom Yahweh your God shall choose: one from among your brothers ya shall set ruler over ya; ya may not put a foreigner over ya, who isn't your fam bro.
  16. Only he won't multiply horses to himself, nor cause the people to return to Egypt, to the end that he may multiply horses; cuz Yahweh has said to ya, “ya won't slide back that way again.”
  17. Neither shall he multiply wives to himself, that his heart not turn away: neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold.
  18. It shall be, when he sits on the throne of his God's squad, that he shall write him a copy of this law in a book, out of that which is before the priests the Levites:
  19. and it shall be with him, and he shall read therein all the days of his life; that he may pick up to fear Yahweh his God, to keep all the words of this law and these statutes, to do them;
  20. that his heart not be lifted up above his brothers, and that he not turn aside from the commandment, to the right hand, or to the left: to the end that he may prolong his days in his God's squad, he and his children, in the midst of Israel.
