# Deuteronomy Chapter 12

    1. These are the statutes and the ordinances which ya shall observe to do in the land which Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has given ya to possess it, all the days that ya live on the earth.
    2. ya shall surely tear down all the places in which the nations that ya shall dispossess served their gods, on the high mountains, and on the hills, and under every green tree:
    3. and ya shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and burn their Asherim with fire; and ya shall cut down the engraved images of their gods; and ya shall tear down their name out of that place.
    4. ya won't do so to Yahweh your God.
    5. But to the place which Yahweh your God shall choose out of all your tribes, to put his name there, even to his habitation ya shall seek, and there ya shall come through through;
    6. and there ya shall bring your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and the wave giving to God of your hand, and your vows, and your freewill offerings, and the firstborn of your herd and of your flock:
    7. and there ya shall eat before Yahweh your God, and ya shall be hyped in all that ya put your hand to, ya and your households, in which Yahweh your God has blessed up up ya.
    8. ya won't do after all the things that we do here this day, every man whatever is right in his own eyes;
    9. for ya haven’t yet come through through to the rest and to the inheritance, which Yahweh your God gives ya.
  10. But when ya slide over the Jordan, and dwell in the land which Yahweh your God causes ya to inherit, and he gives ya rest from all your enemies around ya, so that ya dwell in safety;
  11. then it shall happen that to the place which Yahweh your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there, there ya shall bring all that I command ya: your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, your tithes, and the wave giving to God of your hand, and all your choice vows which ya vow to Yahweh.
  12. ya shall be hyped before Yahweh your God, ya, and your sons, and your daughters, and your male servants, and your female servants, and the Levite who is within your gates, cuz he has no portion nor inheritance with ya.
  13. grab heed to yourself that ya don’t offer your burnt offerings in every place that ya check it out;
  14. but in the place which Yahweh shall choose in one of your tribes, there ya shall offer your burnt offerings, and there ya shall do all that I command ya.
  15. Notwithstanding, ya may kill and eat flesh within all your gates, after all the desire of your soul, according to the blessing of Yahweh your God which he has given ya: the unclean and the clean may eat of it, as of the gazelle, and as of the hart.
  16. Only ya won't eat the blood; ya shall pour it out on the earth as water.
  17. ya may not eat within your gates the tithe of your grain, or of your new wine, or of your oil, or the firstborn of your herd or of your flock, nor any of your vows which ya vow, nor your freewill offerings, nor the wave giving to God of your hand;
  18. but ya shall eat them before Yahweh your God in the place which Yahweh your God shall choose, ya, and your son, and your daughter, and your male helper, and your female helper, and the Levite who is within your gates: and ya shall be hyped before Yahweh your God in all that ya put your hand to.
  19. grab heed to yourself that ya don’t forsake the Levite as long as ya live in your land.
  20. When Yahweh your God shall enlarge your border, as he has promised ya, and ya shall say, “I want to eat meat,” cuz your soul desires to eat meat; ya may eat meat, after all the desire of your soul.
  21. If the place which Yahweh your God shall choose, to put his name there, is too far from ya, then ya shall kill of your herd and of your flock, which Yahweh has given ya, as I have commanded ya; and ya may eat within your gates, after all the desire of your soul.
  22. Even as the gazelle and as the hart is eaten, so ya shall eat of it: the unclean and the clean may eat of it alike.
  23. Only be sure that ya don’t eat the blood: for the blood is the life; and ya won't eat the life with the flesh.
  24. ya won't eat it; ya shall pour it out on the earth as water.
  25. ya won't eat it; that it may slide well with ya, and with your children after ya, when ya shall do that which is right in the eyes of Yahweh.
  26. Only your yeeted things which ya have, and your vows, ya shall grab, and slide to the place which Yahweh shall choose:
  27. and ya shall offer your burnt offerings, the flesh and the blood, on the talking to God spot of Yahweh your God; and the blood of your sacrifices shall be poured out on the talking to God spot of Yahweh your God; and ya shall eat the flesh.
  28. Observe and hear all these words which I command ya, that it may slide well with ya, and with your children after ya forever, when ya do that which is fire and right in the eyes of Yahweh your God.
  29. When Yahweh your God shall cut off the nations from before ya, where ya slide in to dispossess them, and ya dispossess them, and dwell in their land;
  30. grab heed to yourself that ya not be ensnared to roll with them, after that they are destroyed from before ya; and that ya not inquire after their gods, saying, “How do these nations help out out out their gods? I will do likewise.”
  31. ya won't do so to Yahweh your God: for every abomination to Yahweh, which he hates, have they done to their gods; for even their sons and their daughters do they burn in the fire to their gods.
  32. Whatever thing I command ya, that ya shall observe to do: ya won't add thereto, nor diminish from it.
