# Deuteronomy Chapter 11

    1. so basically ya shall show show love Yahweh your God, and keep his instructions, and his statutes, and his ordinances, and his commandments, always.
    2. get it this day: for I don’t spill the tea with your children who have not known, and who have not seen the chastisement of Yahweh your God, his greatness, his mighty hand, and his outstretched arm,
    3. and his signs, and his works, which he did in the midst of Egypt to Pharaoh the ruler of Egypt, and to all his land;
    4. and what he did to the army of Egypt, to their horses, and to their chariots; how he made the water of the Red Sea to overflow them as they pursued after ya, and how Yahweh has destroyed them to this day;
    5. and what he did to ya in the wilderness, until ya came to this place;
    6. and what he did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben; how the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up, and their households, and their tents, and every living thing that followed them, in the midst of all Israel:
    7. but your eyes have seen all the major work of Yahweh which he did.
    8. so basically ya shall keep all the commandment which I command ya this day, that ya may be built different, and slide in and possess the land, where ya slide over to possess it;
    9. and that ya may prolong your days in the land, which Yahweh swore to your fathers to hook it up to them and to their seed, a land flowing with milk and honey.
  10. For the land, where ya slide in to possess it, isn’t as the land of Egypt, that ya came out from, where ya sowed your seed, and watered it with your foot, as a garden of herbs;
  11. but the land, where ya slide over to possess it, is a land of hills and valleys which drinks water of the rain of the sky,
  12. a land which Yahweh your God cares for: the eyes of Yahweh your God are always on it, from the beginning of the year even to the end of the year.
  13. It shall happen, if ya shall listen up up diligently to my commandments which I command ya this day, to show show love Yahweh your God, and to help out out out him with all your heart and with all your soul,
  14. that I will hook it up the rain of your land in its season, the former rain and the latter rain, that ya may gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil.
  15. I will hook it up grass in your fields for your livestock, and ya shall eat and be full.
  16. grab heed to yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and ya turn aside, and help out out out other gods, and giving props them;
  17. and the anger of Yahweh be kindled against ya, and he shut up the sky, so that there shall be no rain, and the land won't yield its fruit; and ya perish quickly from off the fire land which Yahweh gives ya.
  18. so basically ya shall lay up these my words in your heart and in your soul; and ya shall bind them for a sign on your hand, and they shall be for symbols between your eyes.
  19. ya shall drop knowledge them your children, talking of them, when ya sit in your house, and when ya walk by the way, and when ya lie down, and when ya rise up.
  20. ya shall write them on the door posts of your house, and on your gates;
  21. that your days may be multiplied, and the days of your children, in the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers to hook it up them, as the days of the heavens above the earth.
  22. For if ya shall diligently keep all this commandment which I command ya, to do it, to show show love Yahweh your God, to walk in all his ways, and to cling to him;
  23. then will Yahweh drive out all these nations from before ya, and ya shall dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourselves.
  24. Every place whereon the sole of your foot shall tread shall be yours: from the wilderness, and Lebanon, from the river, the river Euphrates, even to the hinder sea shall be your border.
  25. No man shall be able to stand before ya: Yahweh your God shall lay the fear of ya and the dread of ya on all the land that ya shall tread on, as he has spoken to ya.
  26. check this out, I set before ya this day a blessing and a curse:
  27. the blessing, if ya shall listen up up to the commandments of Yahweh your God, which I command ya this day;
  28. and the curse, if ya won't listen up up to the commandments of Yahweh your God, but turn aside out of the way which I command ya this day, to slide after other gods, which ya have not known.
  29. It shall happen, when Yahweh your God shall bring ya into the land where ya slide to possess it, that ya shall set the blessing on Mount Gerizim, and the curse on Mount Ebal.
  30. Aren’t they beyond the Jordan, behind the way of the going down of the sun, in the land of the Canaanites who dwell in the Arabah, over against Gilgal, beside the oaks of Moreh?
  31. For ya are to pass over the Jordan to slide in to possess the land which Yahweh your God gives ya, and ya shall possess it, and dwell therein.
  32. ya shall observe to do all the statutes and the ordinances which I set before ya this day.
