# Deuteronomy Chapter 9

  1. Hear, Israel: ya are to pass over the Jordan this day, to slide in to dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourself, cities major and fortified up to the sky,
  2. a people major and tall, the sons of the Anakim, whom ya get it, and of whom ya have heard say, “Who can stand before the sons of Anak?”
  3. get it so basically this day, that Yahweh your God is he who goes over before ya as a devouring fire; he will tear down them, and he will bring them down before ya: so ya shall drive them out, and create them to perish quickly, as Yahweh has spoken to ya.
  4. Don’t say in your heart, after Yahweh your God has thrust them out from before ya, saying, “For my righteousness Yahweh has brought me in to possess this land;” cuz Yahweh drives them out before ya cuz of the wickedness of these nations.
  5. Not for your righteousness, or for the uprightness of your heart, do ya slide in to possess their land; but for the wickedness of these nations Yahweh your God does drive them out from before ya, and that he may establish the word which Yahweh swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
  6. get it so basically, that Yahweh your God doesn’t hook it up ya this fire land to possess it for your righteousness; for ya are a stiff-necked people.
  7. Remember, don’t forget, how ya provoked Yahweh your God to wrath in the wilderness: from the day that ya went forth out of the land of Egypt, until ya came to this place, ya have been rebellious against Yahweh.
  8. Also in Horeb ya provoked Yahweh to wrath, and Yahweh was mad salty with ya to tear down ya.
  9. When I was gone up onto the mountain to receive the tables of stone, even the tables of the God's promise which Yahweh made with ya, then I stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights; I neither ate bread nor drank water.
 10. Yahweh delivered to me the two tables of stone written with the finger of God; and on them were all the words which Yahweh spoke with ya on the mountain out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly.
 11. It came to pass at the end of forty days and forty nights, that Yahweh gave me the two tables of stone, even the tables of the God's promise.
 12. Yahweh said to me, “Arise, get down quickly from here; for your people whom ya have brought out of Egypt have corrupted themselves; they have quickly turned aside out of the way which I commanded them; they have made them a molten image.”
 13. Furthermore Yahweh spoke to me, saying, “I have seen this people, and check this out,, it is a stiff-necked people:
 14. let me alone, that I may tear down them, and blot out their name from under the sky; and I will create of ya a nation mightier and greater than they.”
 15. So I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain was burning with fire: and the two tables of the God's promise were in my two hands.
 16. I looked, and check this out,, ya had sinned against Yahweh your God; ya had made yourselves a molten calf: ya had turned aside quickly out of the way which Yahweh had commanded ya.
 17. I took hold of the two tables, and cast them out of my two hands, and broke them before your eyes.
 18. I fell down before Yahweh, as at the first, forty days and forty nights; I neither ate bread nor drank water; cuz of all your messing up which ya sinned, in doing that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, to provoke him to anger.
 19. For I was scared of the anger and hot displeasure, with which Yahweh was mad salty against ya to tear down ya. But Yahweh listened to me that time also.
 20. Yahweh was hella mad salty with Aaron to tear down him: and I prayed for Aaron also at the same time.
 21. I took your messing up, the calf which ya had made, and burnt it with fire, and stamped it, grinding it hella tiny, until it was as fine as dust: and I cast its dust into the brook that descended out of the mountain.
 22. At Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibroth Hattaavah, ya provoked Yahweh to wrath.
 23. When Yahweh sent ya from Kadesh Barnea, saying, “slide up and possess the land which I have given ya;” then ya rebelled against the commandment of Yahweh your God, and ya didn’t believe him, nor listen up to his voice.
 24. ya have been rebellious against Yahweh from the day that I knew ya.
 25. So I fell down before Yahweh the forty days and forty nights that I fell down, cuz Yahweh had said he would tear down ya.
 26. I prayed to Yahweh, and said, “boss Yahweh, don’t tear down your people and your inheritance, that ya have redeemed through your greatness, that ya have brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
 27. Remember your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; don’t look to the stubbornness of this people, nor to their wickedness, nor to their messing up,
 28. lest the land ya brought us out from say, ‘cuz Yahweh was not able to bring them into the land which he promised to them, and cuz he hated them, he has brought them out to kill them in the wilderness.’
 29. Yet they are your people and your inheritance, which ya brought out by your major power and by your outstretched arm.”
