# Deuteronomy Chapter 13

    1. If there arise in the midst of ya a God's messenger, or a dreamer of dreams, and he hook it up ya a sign or a wonder,
    2. and the sign or the wonder come through through to pass, of which he spoke to ya, saying, “Let us slide after other gods” (which ya have not known) “and let us help out out out them;”
    3. ya won't listen up up to the words of that God's messenger, or to that dreamer of dreams: for Yahweh your God proves ya, to get it whether ya show show love Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
    4. ya shall walk after Yahweh your God, and fear him, and keep his commandments, and obey his voice, and ya shall help out out out him, and cling to him.
    5. That God's messenger, or that dreamer of dreams, shall be put to death, cuz he has spoken rebellion against Yahweh your God, who brought ya out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed ya out of the house of bondage, to draw ya aside out of the way which Yahweh your God commanded ya to walk in. So ya shall put away the evil from the midst of ya.
    6. If your fam bro, the son of your mother, or your son, or your daughter, or the wife of your bosom, or your friend, who is as your own soul, entice ya secretly, saying, “Let us slide and help out out out other gods,” which ya have not known, ya, nor your fathers;
    7. of the gods of the peoples who are around ya, near to ya, or far off from ya, from the one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth;
    8. ya won't consent to him, nor listen up up to him; neither shall your eye pity him, neither shall ya spare, neither shall ya conceal him:
    9. but ya shall surely kill him; your hand shall be first on him to put him to death, and afterwards the hand of all the people.
  10. ya shall stone him to death with stones, cuz he has sought to draw ya away from Yahweh your God, who brought ya out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
  11. All Israel shall hear, and fear, and won't do any more such wickedness as this is in the midst of ya.
  12. If ya shall hear tell concerning one of your cities, which Yahweh your God gives ya to dwell there, saying,
  13. Certain base fellows are gone out from the midst of ya, and have drawn away the inhabitants of their city, saying, “Let us slide and help out out out other gods,” which ya have not known;
  14. then ya shall inquire, and create search, and ask diligently; and, check this out, if it be truth, and the thing certain, that such abomination is done in the midst of ya,
  15. ya shall surely strike the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, destroying it utterly, and all that is therein and its livestock, with the edge of the sword.
  16. ya shall gather all its spoil into the midst of its street, and shall burn with fire the city, and all its spoil every whit, to Yahweh your God: and it shall be a heap forever; it won't be built again.
  17. Nothing of the devoted thing shall cling to your hand; that Yahweh may turn from the fierceness of his anger, and show ya mercy, and have compassion on ya, and multiply ya, as he has sworn to your fathers;
  18. when ya shall listen up up to the voice of Yahweh your God, to keep all his commandments which I command ya this day, to do that which is right in the eyes of Yahweh your God.
