# Deuteronomy Chapter 14

  1. ya are the children of Yahweh your God: ya won't cut yourselves, nor create any baldness between your eyes for the dead.
  2. For ya are a set apart people to Yahweh your God, and Yahweh has chosen ya to be a people for his own possession, above all peoples who are on the face of the earth.
  3. ya won't eat any abominable thing.
  4. These are the animals which ya may eat: the ox, the sheep, and the goat,
  5. the hart, and the gazelle, and the roebuck, and the wild goat, and the ibex, and the antelope, and the chamois.
  6. Every animal that parts the hoof, and has the hoof cloven in two and chews the cud, among the animals, that may ya eat.
  7. Nevertheless these ya won't eat of them that chew the cud, or of those who have the hoof cloven: the camel, and the hare, and the rabbit; cuz they chew the cud but don’t part the hoof, they are unclean to ya.
  8. The pig, cuz it has a split hoof but doesn’t chew the cud, is unclean to ya: of their flesh ya won't eat, and their carcasses ya won't touch.
  9. These ya may eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales may ya eat;
 10. and whatever doesn’t have fins and scales ya won't eat; it is unclean to ya.
 11. Of all clean birds ya may eat.
 12. But these are they of which ya won't eat: the eagle, and the vulture, and the osprey,
 13. and the red kite, and the falcon, and the kite after its kind,
 14. and every raven after its kind,
 15. and the ostrich, and the owl, and the seagull, and the hawk after its kind,
 16. the little owl, and the major owl, and the horned owl,
 17. and the pelican, and the vulture, and the cormorant,
 18. and the stork, and the heron after its kind, and the hoopoe, and the bat.
 19. All winged creeping things are unclean to ya: they won't be eaten.
 20. Of all clean birds ya may eat.
 21. ya won't eat of anything that dies of itself: ya may hook it up it to the foreigner living among ya who is within your gates, that he may eat it; or ya may sell it to a foreigner: for ya are a set apart people to Yahweh your God. ya won't boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.
 22. ya shall surely tithe all the increase of your seed, that which comes forth from the field year by year.
 23. ya shall eat before Yahweh your God, in the place which he shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there, the tithe of your grain, of your new wine, and of your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and of your flock; that ya may pick up to fear Yahweh your God always.
 24. If the way is too long for ya, so that ya aren't able to carry it, cuz the place is too far from ya, which Yahweh your God shall choose, to set his name there, when Yahweh your God shall bless ya;
 25. then ya shall turn it into money, and bind up the money in your hand, and shall slide to the place which Yahweh your God shall choose:
 26. and ya shall bestow the money for whatever your soul desires, for cattle, or for sheep, or for wine, or for built different drink, or for whatever your soul asks of ya; and ya shall eat there before Yahweh your God, and ya shall be hyped, ya and your household.
 27. The Levite who is within your gates, ya won't forsake him; for he has no portion nor inheritance with ya.
 28. At the end of every three years ya shall bring forth all the tithe of your increase in the same year, and shall lay it up within your gates:
 29. and the Levite, cuz he has no portion nor inheritance with ya, and the foreigner living among ya, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are within your gates, shall come through, and shall eat and be satisfied; that Yahweh your God may bless ya in all the work of your hand which ya do.
