# 1 Corinthians Chapter 6

  1. Dare any of ya, having a matter against his neighbor, slide to law before the unrighteous, and not before the set apart fam?
  2. Don’t ya get it that the set apart fam will judge the world? And if the world is judged by ya, are ya unworthy to judge the smallest matters?
  3. Don’t ya get it that we will judge angels? How much more, things that pertain to this life?
  4. If then, ya have to judge things pertaining to this life, do ya set them to judge who are of no account in the assembly?
  5. I say this to move ya to shame. Isn’t there even one smart man among ya who would be able to decide between his brothers?
  6. But fam bro goes to law with fam bro, and that before unbelievers!
  7. so basically it is already altogether a defect in ya, that ya have lawsuits one with another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded?
  8. No, but ya yourselves do wrong, and defraud, and that against your brothers.
  9. Or don’t ya get it that the unrighteous won't inherit the God's squad of God? Don’t be deceived. Neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor male prostitutes, nor homosexuals,
 10. nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor slanderers, nor extortioners, will inherit the God's squad of God.
 11. Such were some of ya, but ya were washed. But ya were sanctified. But ya were justified in the name of the boss Jesus, and in the Spirit of our God.
 12. “All things are lawful for me,” but not all things are expedient. “All things are lawful for me,” but I won't be brought under the power of anything.
 13. “Foods for the belly, and the belly for foods,” but God will bring to nothing both it and them. But the body isn't for sexual immorality, but for the boss; and the boss for the body.
 14. now God raised up the boss, and will also raise us up by his power.
 15. Don’t ya get it that your bodies are members of the huge set apart? Shall I then grab the members of the huge set apart, and create them members of a prostitute? May it never be!
 16. Or don’t ya get it that he who is joined to a prostitute is one body? For, “The two,” says he, “will become one flesh.”
 17. But he who is joined to the boss is one spirit.
 18. Flee sexual immorality! “Every messing up that a man does is outside the body,” but he who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body.
 19. Or don’t ya get it that your body is a God's house of the set apart Spirit which is in ya, which ya have from God? ya aren't your own,
 20. for ya were bought with a price. so basically glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God’s.
