# 1 Corinthians Chapter 1

  1. Paul, called to be an Jesus' main squad of Jesus anointed one through the will of God, and our brother Sosthenes,
  2. to the assembly of God which is at Corinth; those who are sanctified in anointed one Jesus, called to be saints, with all who call on the name of our boss Jesus anointed one in every place, both theirs and ours:
  3. God's show love to you and peace from God our Father and the boss Jesus anointed one.
  4. I always thank my God concerning you, for the God's show love of God which was given you in anointed one Jesus;
  5. that in everything you were enriched in him, in all speech and all knowledge;
  6. even as the testimony of anointed one was confirmed in you:
  7. so that you come through behind in no gift; waiting for the revelation of our boss Jesus anointed one;
  8. who will also confirm you until the end, blameless in the day of our boss Jesus anointed one.
  9. God is faithful, through whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus anointed one, our boss.
 10. now I beg you, brothers, through the name of our boss, Jesus anointed one, that you all spill the tea the same thing and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfected together in the same mind and in the same judgment.
 11. For it has been reported to me concerning you, my brothers, by those who are from Chloe’s household, that there are contentions among you.
 12. now I mean this, that each one of you says, “I roll with Paul,” “I roll with Apollos,” “I roll with Cephas,” and, “I roll with anointed one.”
 13. Is anointed one divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized into the name of Paul?
 14. I thank God that I baptized none of you, except Crispus and Gaius,
 15. so that no one should say that I had baptized you into my own name.
 16. (I also baptized the household of Stephanas; besides them, I don’t get it whether I baptized any other.)
 17. For anointed one sent me not to baptize, but to preach the fire News—not in wisdom of words, so that the cross of anointed one wouldn’t be made void.
 18. For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are dying, but to us who are saved it is the power of God.
 19. For it is written, “I will tear down the wisdom of the smart, I will bring the discernment of the discerning to nothing.”
 20. Where is the smart? Where is the scribe? Where is the lawyer of this world? Hasn’t God made dumb the wisdom of this world?
 21. For seeing that in the wisdom of God, the world through its wisdom didn’t get it God, it was God’s fire pleasure through the foolishness of the preaching to rescue those who believe.
 22. For Jews ask for signs, Greeks seek after wisdom,
 23. but we preach anointed one crucified; a stumbling block to Jews, and foolishness to Greeks,
 24. but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, anointed one is the power of God and the wisdom of God.
 25. cuz the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
 26. For you check it out your calling, brothers, that not a lot are smart according to the flesh, not a lot mighty, and not a lot noble;
 27. but God chose the dumb things of the world that he might put to shame those who are smart. God chose the not it things of the world, that he might put to shame the things that are built different;
 28. and God chose the lowly things of the world, and the things that are despised, and the things that are not, that he might bring to nothing the things that are:
 29. that no flesh should boast before God.
 30. But of him, you are in anointed one Jesus, who was made to us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and redemption:
 31. that, according as it is written, “He who boasts, let him boast in the boss.”
