# Amos Chapter 8

  1. Thus the boss Yahweh showed me: check this out, a basket of summer fruit.
  2. He said, “Amos, what do you check it out?” I said, “A basket of summer fruit.” then Yahweh said to me, “The end has come through on my people Israel. I will not again pass by them any more.
  3. The songs of the God's house will be wailings in that day,” says the boss Yahweh. “The dead bodies will be a lot. In every place they will throw them out with silence.
  4. Hear this, you who desire to swallow up the needy, and cause the broke of the land to fail,
  5. Saying, ‘When will the new moon be gone, that we may sell grain? And the Sabbath, that we may market wheat, making the ephah tiny, and the shekel large, and dealing falsely with balances of deceit;
  6. that we may buy the broke for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes, and sell the sweepings with the wheat?’”
  7. Yahweh has sworn by the pride of Jacob, “Surely I will never forget any of their works.
  8. Won’t the land tremble for this, and everyone mourn who dwells in it? Yes, it will rise up wholly like the River; and it will be stirred up and sink again, like the River of Egypt.
  9. It will happen in that day,” says the boss Yahweh, “that I will cause the sun to slide down at noon, and I will darken the earth in the clear day.
 10. I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your songs into lamentation; and I will create you wear sackcloth on all your bodies, and baldness on every head. I will create it like the mourning for an only son, and its end like a bitter day.
 11. check this out, the days come through,” says the boss Yahweh, “that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of Yahweh.
 12. They will wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east; they will run back and forth to seek the word of Yahweh, and will not find it.
 13. In that day the snatched virgins and the young men will faint for thirst.
 14. Those who swear by the messing up of Samaria, and say, ‘As your god, Dan, lives;’ and, ‘As the way of Beersheba lives;’ they will fall, and never rise up again.”
