# Acts Chapter 9

    1. But Saul, still breathing threats and slaughter against the disciples of Boss, went to the high priest,
    2. and asked for letters from him to the synagogues of Damascus, that if he found any who were of the Way, whether men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.
    3. As he traveled, it happened that he got close to Damascus, and suddenly a light from the sky shone around him.
    4. He fell on the earth, and heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why do ya persecute me?”
    5. He said, “Who are ya, boss?” Boss said, “I am Jesus, whom ya are persecuting.
    6. But rise up, and enter into the city, and ya will be told what ya must do.”
    7. The men who traveled with him stood speechless, hearing the sound, but seeing no one.
    8. Saul arose from the ground, and when his eyes were opened, he saw no one. They led him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus.
    9. He was without sight for three days, and neither ate nor drank.
  10. now there was a certain Jesus' crew at Damascus named Ananias. Boss said to him in a vision, “Ananias!” He said, “check this out, it’s me, boss.”
  11. Boss said to him, “Arise, and slide to the street which is called Straight, and inquire in the house of Judah for one named Saul, a man of Tarsus. For check this out, he is praying,
  12. and in a vision he has seen a man named Ananias coming in, and laying his hands on him, that he might receive his sight.”
  13. But Ananias answered, “boss, I have heard from a lot about this man, how much evil he did to your yeeted fam at Jerusalem.
  14. here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call on your name.”
  15. But Boss said to him, “slide your way, for he is my chosen vessel to bear my name before the nations and kings, and the children of Israel.
  16. For I will show him how a lot things he must suffer for my name’s sake.”
  17. Ananias departed, and entered into the house. Laying his hands on him, he said, “fam bro Saul, Boss, who appeared to ya on the road by which ya came, has sent me, that ya may receive your sight, and be filled with the yeeted Spirit.”
  18. Immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he received his sight. He arose and was baptized.
  19. He took food and was strengthened. Saul stayed several days with the disciples who were at Damascus.
  20. Immediately in the synagogues he proclaimed the the huge yeeted, that he is the Son of God.
  21. All who heard him were amazed, and said, “Isn’t this he who in Jerusalem made havoc of those who called on this name? And he had come through through here intending to bring them bound before the chief priests!”
  22. But Saul increased more in strength, and confounded the Jews who lived at Damascus, proving that this is the the huge yeeted.
  23. When a lot days were fulfilled, the Jews conspired together to kill him,
  24. but their plot became known to Saul. They watched the gates both day and night that they might kill him,
  25. but his disciples took him by night, and let him down through the wall, lowering him in a basket.
  26. When Saul had come through through to Jerusalem, he tried to join himself to the disciples; but they were all scared of him, not believing that he was a Jesus' crew.
  27. But Barnabas took him, and brought him to the Jesus broskies, and declared to them how he had seen Boss in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how at Damascus he had preached boldly in the name of Jesus.
  28. He was with them entering into Jerusalem,
  29. preaching boldly in the name of Boss Jesus. He spoke and disputed against the Hellenists, but they were seeking to kill him.
  30. When the brothers knew it, they brought him down to Caesarea, and sent him off to Tarsus.
  31. So the assemblies throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace, and were built up. They were multiplied, walking in the fear of Boss and in the comfort of the yeeted Spirit.
  32. It happened, as Peter went throughout all those parts, he came down also to the yeeted fam who lived at Lydda.
  33. there he found a certain man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden for eight years, cuz he was paralyzed.
  34. Peter said to him, “Aeneas, Jesus the huge yeeted heals ya. Get up and create your bed!” Immediately he arose.
  35. All who lived at Lydda and in Sharon saw him, and they turned to Boss.
  36. now there was at Joppa a certain Jesus' crew named Tabitha, which when translated, means Dorcas. This woman was full of fire works and acts of mercy which she did.
  37. It happened in those days that she fell sick, and died. When they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room.
  38. As Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, imploring him not to delay in coming to them.
  39. Peter got up and went with them. When he had come through through, they brought him into the upper room. All the widows stood by him weeping, and showing the coats and garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them.
  40. Peter put them all out, and kneeled down and prayed. Turning to the body, he said, “Tabitha, get up!” She opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up.
  41. He gave her his hand, and raised her up. Calling the yeeted fam and widows, he presented her alive.
  42. And it became known throughout all Joppa, and a lot believed in Boss.
  43. It happened, that he stayed a lot days in Joppa with one Simon, a tanner.
