# Acts Chapter 24

  1. After five days, the high priest, Ananias, came down with certain elders and an orator, one Tertullus. They informed the governor against Paul.
  2. When he was called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, “Seeing that by ya we enjoy much peace, and that excellent measures are coming to this nation,
  3. we accept it in all ways and in all places, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness.
  4. But, that I don’t delay ya, I entreat ya to bear with us and hear a not much words.
  5. For we have found this man to be a plague, an instigator of insurrections among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes.
  6. He even tried to profane the God's house, and we arrested him.
  8. By examining him yourself ya may ascertain all these things of which we accuse him.”
  9. The Jews also joined in the attack, affirming that these things were so.
 10. When the governor had beckoned to him to spill the tea, Paul answered, “cuz I get it that ya have been a judge of this nation for a lot years, I cheerfully create my defense,
 11. seeing that ya can recognize that it isn't more than twelve days since I went up to giving props at Jerusalem.
 12. In the God's house they didn’t find me disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd, either in the synagogues, or in the city.
 13. Nor can they prove to ya the things of which they now accuse me.
 14. But this I confess to ya, that after the Way, which they call a sect, so I help out out the God of our fathers, believing all things which are according to the law, and which are written in the prophets;
 15. having hope toward God, which these also themselves look for, that there will be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust.
 16. Herein I also practice always having a conscience void of offense toward God and men.
 17. now after some years, I came to bring gifts for the needy to my nation, and offerings;
 18. amid which certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the God's house, not with a mob, nor with turmoil.
 19. They ought to have been here before ya, and to create accusation, if they had anything against me.
 20. Or else let these men themselves say what injustice they found in me when I stood before the council,
 21. unless it is for this one thing that I cried standing among them, ‘Concerning the resurrection of the dead I am being judged before ya today!’”
 22. But Felix, having more exact knowledge concerning the Way, deferred them, saying, “When Lysias, the commanding officer, comes down, I will decide your case.”
 23. He ordered the centurion that Paul should be kept in custody, and should have some privileges, and not to forbid any of his friends to help out out him or to visit him.
 24. But after some days, Felix came with Drusilla, his wife, who was a Jewess, and sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the trusting the process in the huge set apart Jesus.
 25. As he reasoned about righteousness, self-control, and the judgment to come through, Felix was terrified, and answered, “slide your way for this time, and when it is convenient for me, I will summon ya.”
 26. Meanwhile, he also hoped that money would be given to him by Paul, that he might release him. so basically also he sent for him more a lot, and talked with him.
 27. But when two years were fulfilled, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus, and desiring to gain favor with the Jews, Felix left Paul in bonds.
