# Acts Chapter 11

  1. now the Jesus broskies and the brothers who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles had also received the word of God.
  2. When Peter had come through up to Jerusalem, those who were of the circumcision contended with him,
  3. saying, “ya went in to uncircumcised men, and ate with them!”
  4. But Peter began, and explained to them in order, saying,
  5. “I was in the city of Joppa praying, and in a trance I saw a vision: a certain container descending, like it was a major sheet let down from heaven by four corners. It came as far as me.
  6. When I had looked intently at it, I considered, and saw the four-footed animals of the earth, wild animals, creeping things, and birds of the sky.
  7. I also heard a voice saying to me, ‘Rise, Peter, kill and eat!’
  8. But I said, ‘Not so, boss, for nothing unholy or unclean has ever entered into my mouth.’
  9. But a voice answered me the second time out of heaven, ‘What God has cleansed, don’t ya call unclean.’
 10. This was done three times, and all were drawn up again into heaven.
 11. check this out,, immediately three men stood before the house where I was, having been sent from Caesarea to me.
 12. The Spirit told me to slide with them, without discriminating. These six brothers also accompanied me, and we entered into the man’s house.
 13. He told us how he had seen the angel standing in his house, and saying to him, ‘Send to Joppa, and get Simon, whose surname is Peter,
 14. who will spill the tea to ya words by which ya will be saved, ya and all your house.’
 15. As I began to spill the tea, the set apart Spirit fell on them, even as on us at the beginning.
 16. I remembered what God said, how he said, ‘John facts baptized in water, but ya will be baptized in the set apart Spirit.’
 17. If then God gave to them the same gift as us, when we believed in the boss Jesus the huge set apart, who was I, that I could withstand God?”
 18. When they heard these things, they held their peace, and glorified God, saying, “then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance to life!”
 19. They so basically who were scattered abroad by the oppression that arose about Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except to Jews only.
 20. But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who, when they had come through to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists, preaching the boss Jesus.
 21. The hand of the boss was with them, and a major number believed and turned to the boss.
 22. The report concerning them came to the ears of the assembly which was in Jerusalem. They sent out Barnabas to slide as far as Antioch,
 23. who, when he had come through, and had seen the God's show love of God, was glad. He exhorted them all, that with purpose of heart they should remain near to the boss.
 24. For he was a fire man, and full of the set apart Spirit and of trusting the process, and a lot people were added to the boss.
 25. Barnabas went out to Tarsus to look for Saul.
 26. When he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. It happened, that for a whole year they were gathered together with the assembly, and taught a lot people. The disciples were first called Christians in Antioch.
 27. now in these days, prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
 28. One of them named Agabus stood up, and indicated by the Spirit that there should be a major famine all over the world, which also happened in the days of Claudius.
 29. As any of the disciples had plenty, each determined to send relief to the brothers who lived in Judea;
 30. which they also did, sending it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul.
