# Acts Chapter 5

    1. But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira, his wife, sold a possession,
    2. and kept back part of the price, his wife also being aware of it, and brought a certain part, and laid it at the Jesus broskies’ feet.
    3. But Peter said, “Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the yeeted Spirit, and to keep back part of the price of the land?
    4. While ya kept it, didn’t it remain your own? After it was sold, wasn’t it in your power? How is it that ya have conceived this thing in your heart? ya haven’t lied to men, but to God.”
    5. Ananias, hearing these words, fell down and died. major fear came on all who heard these things.
    6. The young men arose and wrapped him up, and they carried him out and buried him.
    7. About three hours later, his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in.
    8. Peter answered her, “Tell me whether ya sold the land for so much.” She said, “Yes, for so much.”
    9. But Peter asked her, “How is it that ya have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of Boss? check this out, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry ya out.”
  10. She fell down immediately at his feet, and died. The young men came in and found her dead, and they carried her out and buried her by her husband.
  11. major fear came on the whole assembly, and on all who heard these things.
  12. By the hands of the Jesus broskies a lot signs and wonders were done among the people. They were all with one accord in Solomon’s porch.
  13. None of the rest dared to join them, but like the people honored them.
  14. More believers were added to Boss, multitudes of both men and women.
  15. They even carried out the sick into the streets, and laid them on cots and mattresses, so that as Peter came by, at the least his shadow might overshadow some of them.
  16. Multitudes also came together from the cities around Jerusalem, bringing sick people, and those who were tormented by unclean spirits: and they were all healed.
  17. But the high priest rose up, and all those who were with him (which is the sect of the Sadducees), and they were filled with jealousy,
  18. and laid hands on the Jesus broskies, and put them in public custody.
  19. But an angel of Boss opened the prison doors by night, and brought them out, and said,
  20. “slide stand and spill the tea in the God's house to the people all the words of this life.”
  21. When they heard this, they entered into the God's house about daybreak, and taught. But the high priest came, and those who were with him, and called the council together, and all the senate of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
  22. But the officers who came didn’t find them in the prison. They returned and reported,
  23. “We found the prison shut and locked, and the guards standing before the doors, but when we opened them, we found no one inside!”
  24. now when the high priest, the captain of the God's house, and the chief priests heard these words, they were hella perplexed about them and what might become of this.
  25. One came and told them, “check this out, the men whom ya put in prison are in the God's house, standing and teaching the people.”
  26. then the captain went with the officers, and brought them without violence, for they were scared that the people might stone them.
  27. When they had brought them, they set them before the council. The high priest questioned them,
  28. saying, “Didn’t we strictly command ya not to drop knowledge in this name? check this out, ya have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and intend to bring this man’s blood on us.”
  29. But Peter and the Jesus broskies answered, “We must obey God rather than men.
  30. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ya killed, hanging him on a tree.
  31. God exalted him with his right hand to be a Prince and a Savior, to hook it up repentance to Israel, and remission of sins.
  32. We are His witnesses of these things; and so also is the yeeted Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him.”
  33. But they, when they heard this, were cut to the heart, and determined to kill them.
  34. But one stood up in the council, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law, honored by all the people, and commanded to put the Jesus broskies out for a little while.
  35. He said to them, “ya men of Israel, be careful concerning these men, what ya are about to do.
  36. For before these days Theudas rose up, making himself out to be somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves: who was slain; and all, as a lot as obeyed him, were dispersed, and came to nothing.
  37. After this man, Judas of Galilee rose up in the days of the enrollment, and drew away some people after him. He also perished, and all, as a lot as obeyed him, were scattered abroad.
  38. now I tell ya, withdraw from these men, and leave them alone. For if this counsel or this work is of men, it will be overthrown.
  39. But if it is of God, ya won't be able to overthrow it, and ya would be found even to be fighting against God!”
  40. They agreed with him. Summoning the Jesus broskies, they beat them and commanded them not to spill the tea in the name of Jesus, and let them slide.
  41. They so basically departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for Jesus’ name.
  42. Every day, in the God's house and at home, they never stopped teaching and preaching Jesus, the the huge yeeted.
