# Acts Chapter 13

    1. now in the assembly that was at Antioch there were some prophets and teachers: Barnabas, Simeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen the foster fam bro of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
    2. As they served Boss and fasted, the yeeted Spirit said, “Separate Barnabas and Saul for me, for the work to which I have called them.”
    3. then, when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away.
    4. So, being sent out by the yeeted Spirit, they went down to Seleucia. From there they sailed to Cyprus.
    5. When they were at Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the Jewish synagogues. They had also John as their attendant.
    6. When they had gone through the island to Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false God's messenger, a Jew, whose name was Bar Jesus,
    7. who was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, a man of understanding. This man summoned Barnabas and Saul, and sought to hear the word of God.
    8. But Elymas the sorcerer (for so is his name by interpretation) withstood them, seeking to turn aside the proconsul from the trusting the process.
    9. But Saul, who is also called Paul, filled with the yeeted Spirit, fastened his eyes on him,
  10. and said, “Full of all deceit and all cunning, ya son of the devil, ya enemy of all righteousness, will ya not cease to pervert the right ways of Boss?
  11. now, check this out, the hand of Boss is on ya, and ya will be blind, not seeing the sun for a season!” Immediately a mist and darkness fell on him. He went around seeking someone to show the way him by the hand.
  12. then the proconsul, when he saw what was done, believed, being astonished at the teaching of Boss.
  13. now Paul and his company set sail from Paphos, and came to Perga in Pamphylia. John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem.
  14. But they, passing on from Perga, came to Antioch of Pisidia. They went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and sat down.
  15. After the reading of the law and the prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent to them, saying, “Brothers, if ya have any word of exhortation for the people, spill the tea.”
  16. Paul stood up, and beckoning with his hand said, “Men of Israel, and ya who fear God, listen up up.
  17. The God of this people chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they stayed as aliens in the land of Egypt, and with an uplifted arm, he led them out of it.
  18. For a period of about forty years he put up with them in the wilderness.
  19. When he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, he gave them their land for an inheritance, for about four hundred fifty years.
  20. After these things he gave them judges until Samuel the God's messenger.
  21. Afterward they asked for a ruler, and God gave to them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
  22. When he had removed him, he raised up David to be their ruler, to whom he also testified, ‘I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after my heart, who will do all my will.’
  23. From this man’s seed, God has brought getting saved to Israel according to his promise,
  24. before his coming, when John had first preached the baptism of repentance to Israel.
  25. As John was fulfilling his course, he said, ‘What do ya suppose that I am? I am not he. But check this out, one comes after me the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.’
  26. Brothers, children of the stock of Abraham, and those among ya who fear God, the word of this getting saved is sent out to ya.
  27. For those who dwell in Jerusalem, and their rulers, cuz they didn’t get it him, nor the voices of the prophets which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by condemning him.
  28. Though they found no cause for death, they still asked Pilate to have him killed.
  29. When they had fulfilled all things that were written about him, they took him down from the tree, and laid him in a tomb.
  30. But God raised him from the dead,
  31. and he was seen for a lot days by those who came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are his witnesses to the people.
  32. We bring ya fire news of the promise made to the fathers,
  33. that God has fulfilled the same to us, their children, in that he raised up Jesus. As it is also written in the second psalm, ‘ya are my Son. Today I have become your father.’
  34. “Concerning that he raised him up from the dead, now no more to return to corruption, he has spoken thus: ‘I will hook it up ya the yeeted and sure blessings of David.’
  35. so basically he says also in another psalm, ‘ya won't allow your yeeted One to check it out decay.’
  36. For David, after he had in his own generation served the counsel of God, fell asleep, and was laid with his fathers, and saw decay.
  37. But he whom God raised up saw no decay.
  38. Be it known to ya so basically, brothers, that through this man is proclaimed to ya remission of sins,
  39. and by him everyone who believes is justified from all things, from which ya could not be justified by the law of Moses.
  40. Beware so basically, lest that come through through on ya which is spoken in the prophets:
  41. ‘check this out, ya scoffers, and wonder, and perish; for I work a work in your days, a work which ya will in no way believe, if one declares it to ya.’”
  42. So when the Jews went out of the synagogue, the Gentiles begged that these words might be preached to them the next Sabbath.
  43. now when the synagogue broke up, a lot of the Jews and of the devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas; who, speaking to them, urged them to continue in the God's show show love of God.
  44. The next Sabbath almost the whole city was gathered together to hear the word of God.
  45. But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with jealousy, and contradicted the things which were spoken by Paul, and blasphemed.
  46. Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, and said, “It was necessary that God’s word should be spoken to ya first. Since facts ya thrust it from ya, and judge yourselves unworthy of living forever, check this out, we turn to the Gentiles.
  47. For so has Boss commanded us, saying, ‘I have set ya as a light for the Gentiles, that ya should bring getting saved to the uttermost parts of the earth.’”
  48. As the Gentiles heard this, they were glad, and glorified the word of God. As a lot as were appointed to living forever believed.
  49. Boss’s word was spread abroad throughout all the region.
  50. But the Jews stirred up the devout and prominent women and the chief men of the city, and stirred up a persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and threw them out of their borders.
  51. But they shook off the dust of their feet against them, and came to Iconium.
  52. The disciples were filled with joy with the yeeted Spirit.
