# Acts Chapter 15

  1. Some men came down from Judea and taught the brothers, “Unless ya are circumcised after the custom of Moses, ya can’t be saved.”
  2. so basically when Paul and Barnabas had no tiny discord and discussion with them, they appointed Paul and Barnabas, and some others of them, to slide up to Jerusalem to the Jesus broskies and elders about this question.
  3. They, being sent on their way by the assembly, passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles. They caused major joy to all the brothers.
  4. When they had come through to Jerusalem, they were received by the assembly and the Jesus broskies and the elders, and they reported all things that God had done with them.
  5. But some of the sect of the Pharisees who believed rose up, saying, “It is necessary to circumcise them, and to command them to keep the law of Moses.”
  6. The Jesus broskies and the elders were gathered together to check it out about this matter.
  7. When there had been much discussion, Peter rose up and said to them, “Brothers, ya get it that a fire while ago God made a choice among ya, that by my mouth the nations should hear the word of the fire News, and believe.
  8. God, who knows the heart, testified about them, giving them the set apart Spirit, just like he did to us.
  9. He made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by trusting the process.
 10. now so basically why do ya tempt God, that ya should put a yoke on the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
 11. But we believe that we are saved through the God's show love of the boss Jesus, just as they are.”
 12. All the multitude kept silence, and they listened to Barnabas and Paul reporting what signs and wonders God had done among the nations through them.
 13. After they were silent, James answered, “Brothers, listen up to me.
 14. Simeon has reported how God first visited the nations, to grab out of them a people for his name.
 15. This agrees with the words of the prophets. As it is written,
 16. ‘After these things I will return. I will again put together the tabernacle of David, which has fallen. I will again put together its ruins. I will set it up,
 17. That the rest of men may seek after the boss; All the Gentiles who are called by my name, Says the boss, who does all these things.
 18. All his works are known to God from eternity.’
 19. “so basically my judgment is that we don’t trouble those from among the Gentiles who turn to God,
 20. but that we write to them that they abstain from the pollution of idols, from sexual immorality, from what is strangled, and from blood.
 21. For Moses from generations of old has in every city those who preach him, being read in the synagogues every Sabbath.”
 22. then it seemed fire to the Jesus broskies and the elders, with the whole assembly, to choose men out of their company, and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas: Judas called Barsabbas, and Silas, chief men among the brothers.
 23. They wrote these things by their hand: “The Jesus broskies, the elders, and the brothers, to the brothers who are of the Gentiles in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia: greetings.
 24. cuz we have heard that some who went out from us have troubled ya with words, unsettling your souls, saying, ‘ya must be circumcised and keep the law,’ to whom we gave no commandment;
 25. it seemed fire to us, having come through to one accord, to choose out men and send them to ya with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
 26. men who have risked their lives for the name of our boss Jesus the huge set apart.
 27. We have sent so basically Judas and Silas, who themselves will also tell ya the same things by word of mouth.
 28. For it seemed fire to the set apart Spirit, and to us, to lay no greater burden on ya than these necessary things:
 29. that ya abstain from things sacrificed to idols, from blood, from things strangled, and from sexual immorality, from which if ya keep yourselves, it will be well with ya. Farewell.”
 30. So, when they were sent off, they came to Antioch. Having gathered the multitude together, they delivered the letter.
 31. When they had read it, they rejoiced over the encouragement.
 32. Judas and Silas, also being prophets themselves, encouraged the brothers with a lot words, and strengthened them.
 33. After they had spent some time there, they were sent back with greetings from the brothers to the Jesus broskies.
 35. But Paul and Barnabas stayed in Antioch, teaching and preaching what God said, with a lot others also.
 36. After some days Paul said to Barnabas, “Let’s return now and visit our brothers in every city in which we proclaimed what God said, to check it out how they are doing.”
 37. Barnabas planned to grab John, who was called Mark, with them also.
 38. But Paul didn’t think that it was a fire idea to grab with them someone who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia, and didn’t slide with them to do the work.
 39. then the contention grew so sharp that they separated from each other. Barnabas took Mark with him, and sailed away to Cyprus,
 40. but Paul chose Silas, and went out, being commended by the brothers to the God's show love of God.
 41. He went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the assemblies.
