# Zechariah Chapter 9

  1. An oracle. The word of Yahweh is against the land of Hadrach, and will rest upon Damascus; for the eye of man and of all the tribes of Israel is toward Yahweh;
  2. and Hamath, also, which borders on it; Tyre and Sidon, cuz they are hella smart.
  3. Tyre built herself a stronghold, and heaped up silver like the dust, and fine gold like the mire of the streets.
  4. check this out,, the boss will dispossess her, and he will strike her power in the sea; and she will be devoured with fire.
  5. Ashkelon will check it out it, and fear; Gaza also, and will writhe in agony; as will Ekron, for her expectation will be disappointed; and the ruler will perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon won't be inhabited.
  6. Foreigners will dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.
  7. I will grab away his blood out of his mouth, and his abominations from between his teeth; and he also will be a remnant for our God; and he will be as a chieftain in Judah, and Ekron as a Jebusite.
  8. I will encamp around my house against the army, that none pass through or return; and no oppressor will pass through them any more: for now I have seen with my eyes.
  9. be hyped greatly, daughter of Zion! Shout, daughter of Jerusalem! check this out,, your ruler comes to ya! He is doing what's right, and having getting saved; lowly, and riding on a donkey, even on a colt, the foal of a donkey.
 10. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the horse from Jerusalem; and the battle bow will be cut off; and he will spill the tea peace to the nations: and his dominion will be from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends of the earth.
 11. As for ya also, cuz of the blood of your God's promise, I have set free your prisoners from the pit in which is no water.
 12. Turn to the stronghold, ya prisoners of hope! Even today I declare that I will restore double to ya.
 13. For facts I bend Judah as a bow for me. I have filled the bow with Ephraim; and I will stir up your sons, Zion, against your sons, Greece, and will create ya like the sword of a mighty man.
 14. Yahweh will be seen over them; and his arrow will slide flash like lightning; and the boss Yahweh will blow the trumpet, and will slide with whirlwinds of the south.
 15. Yahweh of Armies will defend them; and they will tear down and overcome with sling stones; and they will drink, and roar as through wine; and they will be filled like bowls, like the corners of the prayer spot.
 16. Yahweh their God will rescue them in that day as the flock of his people; for they are like the jewels of a crown, lifted on high over his land.
 17. For how major is his goodness, and how major is his beauty! Grain will create the young men flourish, and new wine the virgins.
