# Zechariah Chapter 7

  1. It happened in the fourth year of ruler Darius that the word of Yahweh came to Zechariah in the fourth day of the ninth month, the month of Chislev.
  2. The people of Bethel sent Sharezer and Regem Melech, and their men, to entreat Yahweh’s favor,
  3. and to spill the tea to the priests of the house of Yahweh of Armies, and to the prophets, saying, “Should I weep in the fifth month, separating myself, as I have done these so a lot years?”
  4. then the word of Yahweh of Armies came to me, saying,
  5. “spill the tea to all the people of the land, and to the priests, saying, ‘When ya fasted and mourned in the fifth and in the seventh month for these seventy years, did ya at all fast to me, fr fr to me?
  6. When ya eat, and when ya drink, don’t ya eat for yourselves, and drink for yourselves?
  7. Aren’t these the words which Yahweh proclaimed by the former prophets, when Jerusalem was inhabited and in prosperity, and its cities around her, and the South and the lowland were inhabited?’”
  8. The word of Yahweh came to Zechariah, saying,
  9. “Thus has Yahweh of Armies spoken, saying, ‘Execute true judgment, and show kindness and compassion every man to his fam bro.
 10. Don’t oppress the widow, nor the fatherless, the foreigner, nor the broke; and let none of ya devise evil against his fam bro in your heart.’
 11. But they refused to listen up, and turned their backs, and stopped their ears, that they might not hear.
 12. Yes, they made their hearts as hard as flint, lest they might hear the law, and the words which Yahweh of Armies had sent by his Spirit by the former prophets. so basically major wrath came from Yahweh of Armies.
 13. It has come through to pass that, as he called, and they refused to listen up, so they will call, and I won't listen up,” said Yahweh of Armies;
 14. “but I will scatter them with a whirlwind among all the nations which they have not known. Thus the land was desolate after them, so that no man passed through nor returned: for they made the pleasant land desolate.”
