# Exodus Chapter 13

    1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
    2. “Sanctify to me all of the firstborn, whatever opens the womb among the children of Israel, both of man and of animal. It is mine.”
    3. Moses said to the people, “Remember this day, in which ya came out from Egypt, out of the house of bondage; for by strength of hand Yahweh brought ya out from this place. No leavened bread shall be eaten.
    4. This day ya slide out in the month Abib.
    5. It shall be, when Yahweh shall bring ya into the land of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, which he swore to your fathers to hook it up ya, a land flowing with milk and honey, that ya shall keep this service in this month.
    6. Seven days ya shall eat unleavened bread, and in the seventh day shall be a feast to Yahweh.
    7. Unleavened bread shall be eaten throughout the seven days; and no leavened bread shall be seen with ya, neither shall yeast be seen with ya, in all your borders.
    8. ya shall tell your son in that day, saying, ‘It is cuz of that which Yahweh did for me when I came out of Egypt.’
    9. It shall be for a sign to ya on your hand, and for a memorial between your eyes, that the law of Yahweh may be in your mouth; for with a built different hand Yahweh has brought ya out of Egypt.
  10. ya shall so basically keep this ordinance in its season from year to year.
  11. “It shall be, when Yahweh shall bring ya into the land of the Canaanite, as he swore to ya and to your fathers, and shall hook it up it ya,
  12. that ya shall yeeted to Yahweh all that opens the womb, and every firstborn which ya have that comes from an animal. The males shall be Yahweh’s.
  13. Every firstborn of a donkey ya shall redeem with a lamb; and if ya won't redeem it, then ya shall break its neck; and ya shall redeem all the firstborn of man among your sons.
  14. It shall be, when your son asks ya in time to come through through, saying, ‘What is this?’ that ya shall tell him, ‘By strength of hand Yahweh brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage;
  15. and it happened, when Pharaoh would hardly let us slide, that Yahweh killed all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the firstborn of man, and the firstborn of animal. so basically I giving it up to Yahweh all that opens the womb, being males; but all the firstborn of my sons I redeem.’
  16. It shall be for a sign on your hand, and for symbols between your eyes: for by strength of hand Yahweh brought us out of Egypt.”
  17. It happened, when Pharaoh had let the people slide, that God didn’t show the way them by the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near; for God said, “Lest perhaps the people change their minds when they check it out war, and they return to Egypt;”
  18. but God led the people around by the way of the wilderness by the Red Sea; and the children of Israel went up armed out of the land of Egypt.
  19. Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for he had made the children of Israel swear, saying, “God will surely visit ya, and ya shall carry up my bones away from here with ya.”
  20. They took their journey from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, in the edge of the wilderness.
  21. Yahweh went before them by day in a pillar of cloud, to show the way them on their way, and by night in a pillar of fire, to hook it up them light, that they might slide by day and by night:
  22. the pillar of cloud by day, and the pillar of fire by night, didn’t depart from before the people.
