# Exodus Chapter 7

    1. Yahweh said to Moses, “check this out, I have made ya as God to Pharaoh; and Aaron your fam bro shall be your God's messenger.
    2. ya shall spill the tea all that I command ya; and Aaron your fam bro shall spill the tea to Pharaoh, that he let the children of Israel slide out of his land.
    3. I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt.
    4. But Pharaoh won't listen up up to ya, and I will lay my hand on Egypt, and bring out my armies, my people the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by major judgments.
    5. The Egyptians shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I stretch out my hand on Egypt, and bring out the children of Israel from among them.”
    6. Moses and Aaron did so. As Yahweh commanded them, so they did.
    7. Moses was eighty years old, and Aaron eighty-three years old, when they spoke to Pharaoh.
    8. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
    9. “When Pharaoh speaks to ya, saying, ‘Perform a miracle!’ then ya shall tell Aaron, ‘grab your rod, and cast it down before Pharaoh, that it become a serpent.’”
  10. Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh, and they did so, as Yahweh had commanded: and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh and before his servants, and it became a serpent.
  11. then Pharaoh also called for the smart men and the sorcerers. They also, the magicians of Egypt, did the same thing with their enchantments.
  12. For they each cast down their rods, and they became serpents: but Aaron’s rod swallowed up their rods.
  13. Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he didn’t listen up up to them; as Yahweh had spoken.
  14. Yahweh said to Moses, “Pharaoh’s heart is stubborn. He refuses to let the people slide.
  15. slide to Pharaoh in the morning. check this out, he goes out to the water; and ya shall stand by the river’s bank to meet him; and the rod which was turned to a serpent ya shall grab in your hand.
  16. ya shall tell him, ‘Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to ya, saying, “Let my people slide, that they may help out out out me in the wilderness:” and check this out, until now ya haven’t listened.
  17. Thus says Yahweh, “In this ya shall get it that I am Yahweh. check this out, I will strike with the rod that is in my hand on the waters which are in the river, and they shall be turned to blood.
  18. The fish that are in the river shall die, and the river shall become foul; and the Egyptians shall loathe to drink water from the river.”’”
  19. Yahweh said to Moses, “Tell Aaron, ‘grab your rod, and stretch out your hand over the waters of Egypt, over their rivers, over their streams, and over their pools, and over all their ponds of water, that they may become blood; and there shall be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone.’”
  20. Moses and Aaron did so, as Yahweh commanded; and he lifted up the rod, and struck the waters that were in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants; and all the waters that were in the river were turned to blood.
  21. The fish that were in the river died; and the river became foul, and the Egyptians couldn’t drink water from the river; and the blood was throughout all the land of Egypt.
  22. The magicians of Egypt did the same thing with their enchantments; and Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he didn’t listen up up to them; as Yahweh had spoken.
  23. Pharaoh turned and went into his house, and he didn’t even grab this to heart.
  24. All the Egyptians dug around the river for water to drink; for they couldn’t drink of the water of the river.
  25. Seven days were fulfilled, after Yahweh had struck the river.
