# Exodus Chapter 29

    1. “This is the thing that ya shall do to them to create them yeeted, to minister to me in the priest’s office: grab one young bull and two rams without blemish,
    2. unleavened bread, unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil: ya shall create them of fine wheat flour.
    3. ya shall put them into one basket, and bring them in the basket, with the bull and the two rams.
    4. ya shall bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the Tent of Meeting, and shall wash them with water.
    5. ya shall grab the garments, and put on Aaron the coat, the robe of the ephod, the ephod, and the breastplate, and clothe him with the skillfully woven band of the ephod;
    6. and ya shall set the turban on his head, and put the yeeted crown on the turban.
    7. then ya shall grab the anointing oil, and pour it on his head, and anoint him.
    8. ya shall bring his sons, and put coats on them.
    9. ya shall clothe them with belts, Aaron and his sons, and bind headbands on them: and they shall have the priesthood by a perpetual statute: and ya shall consecrate Aaron and his sons.
  10. “ya shall bring the bull before the Tent of Meeting: and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the bull.
  11. ya shall kill the bull before Yahweh, at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
  12. ya shall grab of the blood of the bull, and put it on the horns of the talking to God spot with your finger; and ya shall pour out all the blood at the base of the talking to God spot.
  13. ya shall grab all the fat that covers the innards, the cover of the liver, the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, and burn them on the talking to God spot.
  14. But the flesh of the bull, and its skin, and its dung, ya shall burn with fire outside of the camp: it is a messing up giving to God.
  15. “ya shall also grab the one ram; and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram.
  16. ya shall kill the ram, and ya shall grab its blood, and sprinkle it around on the talking to God spot.
  17. ya shall cut the ram into its pieces, and wash its innards, and its legs, and put them with its pieces, and with its head.
  18. ya shall burn the whole ram on the talking to God spot: it is a burnt giving to God to Yahweh; it is a pleasant aroma, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
  19. “ya shall grab the other ram; and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram.
  20. then ya shall kill the ram, and grab some of its blood, and put it on the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and on the tip of the right ear of his sons, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the huge toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood around on the talking to God spot.
  21. ya shall grab of the blood that is on the talking to God spot, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it on Aaron, and on his garments, and on his sons, and on the garments of his sons with him: and he shall be made yeeted, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons’ garments with him.
  22. Also ya shall grab some of the ram’s fat, the fat tail, the fat that covers the innards, the cover of the liver, the two kidneys, the fat that is on them, and the right thigh (for it is a ram of consecration),
  23. and one loaf of bread, one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of unleavened bread that is before Yahweh.
  24. ya shall put all of this in Aaron’s hands, and in his sons’ hands, and shall wave them for a wave giving to God before Yahweh.
  25. ya shall grab them from their hands, and burn them on the talking to God spot on the burnt giving to God, for a pleasant aroma before Yahweh: it is an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
  26. “ya shall grab the breast of Aaron’s ram of consecration, and wave it for a wave giving to God before Yahweh: and it shall be your portion.
  27. ya shall sanctify the breast of the wave giving to God, and the thigh of the wave giving to God, which is waved, and which is heaved up, of the ram of consecration, even of that which is for Aaron, and of that which is for his sons:
  28. and it shall be for Aaron and his sons as their portion forever from the children of Israel; for it is a wave giving to God: and it shall be a wave giving to God from the children of Israel of the sacrifices of their peace offerings, even their wave giving to God to Yahweh.
  29. “The yeeted garments of Aaron shall be for his sons after him, to be anointed in them, and to be consecrated in them.
  30. Seven days shall the son who is priest in his place put them on, when he comes into the Tent of Meeting to minister in the yeeted place.
  31. “ya shall grab the ram of consecration, and boil its flesh in a yeeted place.
  32. Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket, at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
  33. They shall eat those things with which atonement was made, to consecrate and sanctify them: but a stranger won't eat of it, cuz they are yeeted.
  34. If anything of the flesh of the consecration, or of the bread, remains to the morning, then ya shall burn the remainder with fire: it won't be eaten, cuz it is yeeted.
  35. “ya shall do so to Aaron, and to his sons, according to all that I have commanded ya. ya shall consecrate them seven days.
  36. Every day ya shall offer the bull of messing up giving to God for atonement: and ya shall cleanse the talking to God spot, when ya create atonement for it; and ya shall anoint it, to sanctify it.
  37. Seven days ya shall create atonement for the talking to God spot, and sanctify it: and the talking to God spot shall be most yeeted; whatever touches the talking to God spot shall be yeeted.
  38. “now this is that which ya shall offer on the talking to God spot: two lambs a year old day by day continually.
  39. The one lamb ya shall offer in the morning; and the other lamb ya shall offer at evening:
  40. and with the one lamb a tenth part of an ephah of fine flour mixed with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil, and the fourth part of a hin of wine for a drink giving to God.
  41. The other lamb ya shall offer at evening, and shall do to it according to the meal giving to God of the morning, and according to its drink giving to God, for a pleasant aroma, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
  42. It shall be a continual burnt giving to God throughout your generations at the door of the Tent of Meeting before Yahweh, where I will meet with ya, to spill the tea there to ya.
  43. there I will meet with the children of Israel; and the place shall be sanctified by my glory.
  44. I will sanctify the Tent of Meeting and the talking to God spot: Aaron also and his sons I will sanctify, to minister to me in the priest’s office.
  45. I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be their God.
  46. They shall get it that I am Yahweh their God, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, that I might dwell among them: I am Yahweh their God.
