# Exodus Chapter 23

    1. “ya won't spread a false report. Don’t join your hand with the wicked to be a malicious witness.
    2. “ya won't roll with a crowd to do evil; neither shall ya testify in court to side with a multitude to pervert justice;
    3. neither shall ya favor a broke man in his cause.
    4. “If ya meet your enemy’s ox or his donkey going astray, ya shall surely bring it back to him again.
    5. If ya check it out the donkey of him who hates ya fallen down under his burden, don’t leave him, ya shall surely help out out him with it.
    6. “ya won't deny justice to your broke people in their lawsuits.
    7. “Keep far from a false charge, and don’t kill the innocent and doing what's right: for I won't justify the wicked.
    8. “ya shall grab no bribe, for a bribe blinds those who have sight and perverts the words of the doing what's right.
    9. “ya won't oppress an alien, for ya get it the heart of an alien, since ya were aliens in the land of Egypt.
  10. “For six years ya shall sow your land, and shall gather in its increase,
  11. but the seventh year ya shall let it rest and lie fallow, that the broke of your people may eat; and what they leave the animal of the field shall eat. In the same way, ya shall deal with your vineyard and with your olive grove.
  12. “Six days ya shall do your work, and on the seventh day ya shall rest, that your ox and your donkey may have rest, and the son of your handmaid, and the alien may be refreshed.
  13. “Be careful to do all things that I have said to ya; and don’t invoke the name of other gods, neither let them be heard out of your mouth.
  14. “ya shall observe a feast to me three times a year.
  15. ya shall observe the feast of unleavened bread. Seven days ya shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded ya, at the time appointed in the month Abib (for in it ya came out from Egypt), and no one shall appear before me empty.
  16. And the feast of harvest, the first fruits of your labors, which ya sow in the field: and the feast of harvest, at the end of the year, when ya gather in your labors out of the field.
  17. Three times in the year all your males shall appear before Boss Yahweh.
  18. “ya won't offer the blood of my giving it up with leavened bread, neither shall the fat of my feast remain all night until the morning.
  19. The first of the first fruits of your ground ya shall bring into the house of Yahweh your God. “ya won't boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.
  20. “check this out, I send an angel before ya, to keep ya by the way, and to bring ya into the place which I have prepared.
  21. Pay attention to him, and listen up up to his voice. Don’t provoke him, for he won't pardon your disobedience, for my name is in him.
  22. But if ya facts listen up up to his voice, and do all that I spill the tea, then I will be an enemy to your enemies, and an adversary to your adversaries.
  23. For my angel shall slide before ya, and bring ya in to the Amorite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Canaanite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite; and I will cut them off.
  24. ya won't bow down to their gods, nor help out out out them, nor roll with their practices, but ya shall utterly overthrow them and demolish their pillars.
  25. ya shall help out out out Yahweh your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will grab sickness away from your midst.
  26. No one will miscarry or be barren in your land. I will fulfill the number of your days.
  27. I will send my terror before ya, and will confuse all the people to whom ya come through through, and I will create all your enemies turn their backs to ya.
  28. I will send the hornet before ya, which will drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before ya.
  29. I won't drive them out from before ya in one year, lest the land become desolate, and the animals of the field multiply against ya.
  30. Little by little I will drive them out from before ya, until ya have increased and inherit the land.
  31. I will set your border from the Red Sea even to the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness to the River; for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and ya shall drive them out before ya.
  32. ya shall create no God's promise with them, nor with their gods.
  33. They won't dwell in your land, lest they create ya messing up against me, for if ya help out out out their gods, it will surely be a snare to ya.”
