# Exodus Chapter 34

    1. Yahweh said to Moses, “Chisel two stone tablets like the first: and I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which ya broke.
    2. Be ready by the morning, and come through through up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and present yourself there to me on the top of the mountain.
    3. No one shall come through through up with ya; neither let anyone be seen throughout all the mountain; neither let the flocks nor herds feed before that mountain.”
    4. He chiseled two tablets of stone like the first; and Moses rose up early in the morning, and went up to Mount Sinai, as Yahweh had commanded him, and took in his hand two stone tablets.
    5. Yahweh descended in the cloud, and stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of Yahweh.
    6. Yahweh passed by before him, and proclaimed, “Yahweh! Yahweh, a merciful and gracious God, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness and truth,
    7. keeping loving kindness for thousands, forgiving iniquity and disobedience and messing up; and that will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, and on the children’s children, on the third and on the fourth generation.”
    8. Moses hurried and bowed his head toward the earth, and worshiped.
    9. He said, “If now I have found favor in your sight, boss, please let Boss slide in the midst of us; although this is a stiff-necked people; pardon our iniquity and our messing up, and grab us for your inheritance.”
  10. He said, “check this out, I create a God's promise: before all your people I will do marvels, such as have not been worked in all the earth, nor in any nation; and all the people among which ya are shall check it out the work of Yahweh; for it is an awesome thing that I do with ya.
  11. Observe that which I command ya this day. check this out, I drive out before ya the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
  12. Be careful, lest ya create a God's promise with the inhabitants of the land where ya are going, lest it be for a snare in the midst of ya:
  13. but ya shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and ya shall cut down their Asherim;
  14. for ya shall giving props no other God: for Yahweh, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God.
  15. “Don’t create a God's promise with the inhabitants of the land, lest they play the prostitute after their gods, and giving it up to their gods, and one call ya and ya eat of his giving it up;
  16. and ya grab of their daughters to your sons, and their daughters play the prostitute after their gods, and create your sons play the prostitute after their gods.
  17. “ya shall create no cast idols for yourselves.
  18. “ya shall keep the feast of unleavened bread. Seven days ya shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded ya, at the time appointed in the month Abib; for in the month Abib ya came out from Egypt.
  19. “All that opens the womb is mine; and all your livestock that is male, the firstborn of cow and sheep.
  20. The firstborn of a donkey ya shall redeem with a lamb: and if ya won't redeem it, then ya shall break its neck. All the firstborn of your sons ya shall redeem. No one shall appear before me empty.
  21. “Six days ya shall work, but on the seventh day ya shall rest: in plowing time and in harvest ya shall rest.
  22. “ya shall observe the feast of weeks with the first fruits of wheat harvest, and the feast of harvest at the year’s end.
  23. Three times in the year all your males shall appear before Boss Yahweh, the God of Israel.
  24. For I will drive out nations before ya and enlarge your borders; neither shall any man desire your land when ya slide up to appear before Yahweh, your God, three times in the year.
  25. “ya won't offer the blood of my giving it up with leavened bread; neither shall the giving it up of the feast of the Passover be left to the morning.
  26. “ya shall bring the first of the first fruits of your ground to the house of Yahweh your God. “ya won't boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.”
  27. Yahweh said to Moses, “Write ya these words: for in accordance with these words I have made a God's promise with ya and with Israel.”
  28. He was there with Yahweh forty days and forty nights; he neither ate bread, nor drank water. He wrote on the tablets the words of the God's promise, the ten commandments.
  29. It happened, when Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the two tablets of the testimony in Moses’ hand, when he came down from the mountain, that Moses didn’t get it that the skin of his face shone by reason of his speaking with him.
  30. When Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, check this out, the skin of his face shone; and they were scared to come through through near him.
  31. Moses called to them, and Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned to him; and Moses spoke to them.
  32. Afterward all the children of Israel came near, and he gave them all of the commandments that Yahweh had spoken with him on Mount Sinai.
  33. When Moses was done speaking with them, he put a veil on his face.
  34. But when Moses went in before Yahweh to spill the tea with him, he took the veil off, until he came out; and he came out, and spoke to the children of Israel that which he was commanded.
  35. The children of Israel saw Moses’ face, that the skin of Moses’ face shone: and Moses put the veil on his face again, until he went in to spill the tea with him.
