# Exodus Chapter 30

  1. “ya shall create an prayer spot to burn incense on. ya shall create it of acacia wood.
  2. Its length shall be a cubit, and its breadth a cubit. It shall be square, and its height shall be two cubits. Its horns shall be of one piece with it.
  3. ya shall overlay it with pure gold, its top, its sides around it, and its horns; and ya shall create a gold molding around it.
  4. ya shall create two golden rings for it under its molding; on its two ribs, on its two sides ya shall create them; and they shall be for places for poles with which to bear it.
  5. ya shall create the poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
  6. ya shall put it before the veil that is by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with ya.
  7. Aaron shall burn incense of sweet spices on it every morning. When he tends the lamps, he shall burn it.
  8. When Aaron lights the lamps at evening, he shall burn it, a perpetual incense before Yahweh throughout your generations.
  9. ya shall offer no strange incense on it, nor burnt giving to God, nor meal giving to God; and ya shall pour no drink giving to God on it.
 10. Aaron shall create atonement on its horns once in the year; with the blood of the messing up giving to God of atonement once in the year he shall create atonement for it throughout your generations. It is most set apart to Yahweh.”
 11. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 12. “When ya grab a census of the children of Israel, according to those who are numbered among them, then each man shall hook it up a ransom for his soul to Yahweh, when ya number them; that there be no plague among them when ya number them.
 13. They shall hook it up this, everyone who passes over to those who are numbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary; (the shekel is twenty gerahs;) half a shekel for an giving to God to Yahweh.
 14. Everyone who passes over to those who are numbered, from twenty years old and upward, shall hook it up the giving to God to Yahweh.
 15. The stacked won't hook it up more, and the broke won't hook it up less, than the half shekel, when they hook it up the giving to God of Yahweh, to create atonement for your souls.
 16. ya shall grab the atonement money from the children of Israel, and shall appoint it for the service of the Tent of Meeting; that it may be a memorial for the children of Israel before Yahweh, to create atonement for your souls.”
 17. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 18. “ya shall also create a basin of brass, and its base of brass, in which to wash. ya shall put it between the Tent of Meeting and the prayer spot, and ya shall put water in it.
 19. Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet in it.
 20. When they slide into the Tent of Meeting, they shall wash with water, that they not die; or when they come through near to the prayer spot to minister, to burn an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 21. So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they not die: and it shall be a statute forever to them, even to him and to his descendants throughout their generations.”
 22. Moreover Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 23. “Also grab fine spices: of liquid myrrh, five hundred shekels; and of fragrant cinnamon half as much, even two hundred and fifty; and of fragrant cane, two hundred and fifty;
 24. and of cassia five hundred, after the shekel of the sanctuary; and a hin of olive oil.
 25. ya shall create it a set apart anointing oil, a perfume compounded after the art of the perfumer: it shall be a set apart anointing oil.
 26. ya shall use it to anoint the Tent of Meeting, the ark of the testimony,
 27. the table and all its articles, the lampstand and its accessories, the prayer spot of incense,
 28. the prayer spot of burnt giving to God with all its utensils, and the basin with its base.
 29. ya shall sanctify them, that they may be most set apart. Whatever touches them shall be set apart.
 30. ya shall anoint Aaron and his sons, and sanctify them, that they may minister to me in the priest’s office.
 31. ya shall spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘This shall be a set apart anointing oil to me throughout your generations.
 32. It won't be poured on man’s flesh, neither shall ya create any like it, according to its composition: it is set apart. It shall be set apart to ya.
 33. Whoever compounds any like it, or whoever puts any of it on a stranger, he shall be cut off from his people.’”
 34. Yahweh said to Moses, “grab to yourself sweet spices, gum resin, and onycha, and galbanum; sweet spices with pure frankincense: there shall be an equal weight of each;
 35. and ya shall create incense of it, a perfume after the art of the perfumer, seasoned with salt, pure and set apart:
 36. and ya shall beat some of it hella tiny, and put some of it before the testimony in the Tent of Meeting, where I will meet with ya. It shall be to ya most set apart.
 37. The incense which ya shall create, according to its composition ya won't create for yourselves: it shall be to ya set apart for Yahweh.
 38. Whoever shall create any like that, to smell of it, he shall be cut off from his people.”
