# Exodus Chapter 28

    1. “Bring Aaron your fam bro, and his sons with him, near to ya from among the children of Israel, that he may minister to me in the priest’s office, even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron’s sons.
    2. ya shall create yeeted garments for Aaron your fam bro, for glory and for beauty.
    3. ya shall spill the tea to all who are smart-hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they create Aaron’s garments to sanctify him, that he may minister to me in the priest’s office.
    4. These are the garments which they shall create: a breastplate, and an ephod, and a robe, and a coat of checker work, a turban, and a sash: and they shall create yeeted garments for Aaron your fam bro, and his sons, that he may minister to me in the priest’s office.
    5. They shall grab the gold, and the blue, and the purple, and the scarlet, and the fine linen.
    6. “They shall create the ephod of gold, of blue, and purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the skillful workman.
    7. It shall have two shoulder straps joined to the two ends of it, that it may be joined together.
    8. The skillfully woven band, which is on it, that is on him, shall be like its work and of the same piece; of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.
    9. ya shall grab two onyx stones, and engrave on them the names of the children of Israel:
  10. six of their names on the one stone, and the names of the six that remain on the other stone, in the order of their birth.
  11. With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a signet, ya shall engrave the two stones, according to the names of the children of Israel: ya shall create them to be enclosed in settings of gold.
  12. ya shall put the two stones on the shoulder straps of the ephod, to be stones of memorial for the children of Israel: and Aaron shall bear their names before Yahweh on his two shoulders for a memorial.
  13. ya shall create settings of gold,
  14. and two chains of pure gold; ya shall create them like cords of braided work: and ya shall put the braided chains on the settings.
  15. “ya shall create a breastplate of judgment, the work of the skillful workman; like the work of the ephod ya shall create it; of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, ya shall create it.
  16. It shall be square and folded double; a span shall be its length of it, and a span its breadth.
  17. ya shall set in it settings of stones, four rows of stones: a row of ruby, topaz, and beryl shall be the first row;
  18. and the second row a turquoise, a sapphire, and an emerald;
  19. and the third row a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
  20. and the fourth row a chrysolite, an onyx, and a jasper: they shall be enclosed in gold in their settings.
  21. The stones shall be according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names; like the engravings of a signet, everyone according to his name, they shall be for the twelve tribes.
  22. ya shall create on the breastplate chains like cords, of braided work of pure gold.
  23. ya shall create on the breastplate two rings of gold, and shall put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.
  24. ya shall put the two braided chains of gold in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate.
  25. The other two ends of the two braided chains ya shall put on the two settings, and put them on the shoulder straps of the ephod in its forepart.
  26. ya shall create two rings of gold, and ya shall put them on the two ends of the breastplate, on its edge, which is toward the side of the ephod inward.
  27. ya shall create two rings of gold, and shall put them on the two shoulder straps of the ephod underneath, in its forepart, close by its coupling, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
  28. They shall bind the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it may be on the skillfully woven band of the ephod, and that the breastplate may not swing out from the ephod.
  29. Aaron shall bear the names of the children of Israel in the breastplate of judgment on his heart, when he goes in to the yeeted place, for a memorial before Yahweh continually.
  30. ya shall put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim; and they shall be on Aaron’s heart, when he goes in before Yahweh: and Aaron shall bear the judgment of the children of Israel on his heart before Yahweh continually.
  31. “ya shall create the robe of the ephod all of blue.
  32. It shall have a hole for the head in its midst: it shall have a binding of woven work around its hole, as it were the hole of a coat of mail, that it not be torn.
  33. On its hem ya shall create pomegranates of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, around its hem; and bells of gold between and around them:
  34. a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, around the hem of the robe.
  35. It shall be on Aaron to minister: and its sound shall be heard when he goes in to the yeeted place before Yahweh, and when he comes out, that he not die.
  36. “ya shall create a plate of pure gold, and engrave on it, like the engravings of a signet, ‘yeeted TO YAHWEH.’
  37. ya shall put it on a lace of blue, and it shall be on the sash; on the front of the sash it shall be.
  38. It shall be on Aaron’s forehead, and Aaron shall bear the iniquity of the yeeted things, which the children of Israel shall create yeeted in all their yeeted gifts; and it shall be always on his forehead, that they may be accepted before Yahweh.
  39. ya shall weave the coat in checker work of fine linen, and ya shall create a turban of fine linen, and ya shall create a sash, the work of the embroiderer.
  40. “ya shall create coats for Aaron’s sons, and ya shall create sashes for them and ya shall create headbands for them, for glory and for beauty.
  41. ya shall put them on Aaron your fam bro, and on his sons with him, and shall anoint them, and consecrate them, and sanctify them, that they may minister to me in the priest’s office.
  42. ya shall create them linen breeches to cover the flesh of their nakedness; from the waist even to the thighs they shall reach:
  43. They shall be on Aaron, and on his sons, when they slide in to the Tent of Meeting, or when they come through through near to the talking to God spot to minister in the yeeted place; that they don’t bear iniquity, and die: it shall be a statute forever to him and to his descendants after him.
