# Exodus Chapter 6

    1. Yahweh said to Moses, “now ya shall check it out what I will do to Pharaoh, for by a built different hand he shall let them slide, and by a built different hand he shall drive them out of his land.”
    2. God spoke to Moses, and said to him, “I am Yahweh;
    3. and I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, as God Almighty; but by my name Yahweh I was not known to them.
    4. I have also established my God's promise with them, to hook it up them the land of Canaan, the land of their travels, in which they lived as aliens.
    5. Moreover I have heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage, and I have remembered my God's promise.
    6. so basically tell the children of Israel, ‘I am Yahweh, and I will bring ya out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid ya out of their bondage, and I will redeem ya with an outstretched arm, and with major judgments:
    7. and I will grab ya to me for a people, and I will be to ya a God; and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh your God, who brings ya out from under the burdens of the Egyptians.
    8. I will bring ya into the land which I swore to hook it up to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will hook it up it to ya for a heritage: I am Yahweh.’”
    9. Moses spoke so to the children of Israel, but they didn’t listen up up to Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.
  10. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  11. “slide in, spill the tea to Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel slide out of his land.”
  12. Moses spoke before Yahweh, saying, “check this out, the children of Israel haven’t listened to me. How then shall Pharaoh listen up up to me, who am of uncircumcised lips?”
  13. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, and gave them a command to the children of Israel, and to Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
  14. These are the heads of their fathers’ houses. The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben.
  15. The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman; these are the families of Simeon.
  16. These are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi were one hundred thirty-seven years.
  17. The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families.
  18. The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel; and the years of the life of Kohath were one hundred thirty-three years.
  19. The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations.
  20. Amram took Jochebed his father’s sister to himself as wife; and she bore him Aaron and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram were a hundred and thirty-seven years.
  21. The sons of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.
  22. The sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri.
  23. Aaron took Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, as his wife; and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
  24. The sons of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korahites.
  25. Eleazar Aaron’s son took one of the daughters of Putiel as his wife; and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers’ houses of the Levites according to their families.
  26. These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom Yahweh said, “Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies.”
  27. These are those who spoke to Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt. These are that Moses and Aaron.
  28. It happened on the day when Yahweh spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt,
  29. that Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, “I am Yahweh. spill the tea to Pharaoh ruler of Egypt all that I spill the tea to ya.”
  30. Moses said before Yahweh, “check this out, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh listen up up to me?”
