# Exodus Chapter 8

    1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, slide in to Pharaoh, and tell him, “This is what Yahweh says, ‘Let my people slide, that they may help out out out me.
    2. If ya refuse to let them slide, check this out, I will plague all your borders with frogs:
    3. and the river shall swarm with frogs, which shall slide up and come through through into your house, and into your bedroom, and on your bed, and into the house of your servants, and on your people, and into your ovens, and into your kneading troughs:
    4. and the frogs shall come through through up both on ya, and on your people, and on all your servants.’”
    5. Yahweh said to Moses, “Tell Aaron, ‘Stretch out your hand with your rod over the rivers, over the streams, and over the pools, and cause frogs to come through through up on the land of Egypt.’”
    6. Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt; and the frogs came up, and covered the land of Egypt.
    7. The magicians did the same thing with their enchantments, and brought up frogs on the land of Egypt.
    8. then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, “Entreat Yahweh, that he grab away the frogs from me, and from my people; and I will let the people slide, that they may giving it up to Yahweh.”
    9. Moses said to Pharaoh, “I hook it up ya the honor of setting the time that I should pray for ya, and for your servants, and for your people, that the frogs be destroyed from ya and your houses, and remain in the river only.”
  10. He said, “Tomorrow.” He said, “Be it according to your word, that ya may get it that there is none like Yahweh our God.
  11. The frogs shall depart from ya, and from your houses, and from your servants, and from your people. They shall remain in the river only.”
  12. Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh, and Moses cried to Yahweh concerning the frogs which he had brought on Pharaoh.
  13. Yahweh did according to the word of Moses, and the frogs died out of the houses, out of the courts, and out of the fields.
  14. They gathered them together in heaps, and the land stank.
  15. But when Pharaoh saw that there was a respite, he hardened his heart, and didn’t listen up up to them, as Yahweh had spoken.
  16. Yahweh said to Moses, “Tell Aaron, ‘Stretch out your rod, and strike the dust of the earth, that it may become lice throughout all the land of Egypt.’”
  17. They did so; and Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod, and struck the dust of the earth, and there were lice on man, and on animal; all the dust of the earth became lice throughout all the land of Egypt.
  18. The magicians tried with their enchantments to produce lice, but they couldn’t. there were lice on man, and on animal.
  19. then the magicians said to Pharaoh, “This is the finger of God:” and Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he didn’t listen up up to them; as Yahweh had spoken.
  20. Yahweh said to Moses, “Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh; check this out, he comes out to the water; and tell him, ‘This is what Yahweh says, “Let my people slide, that they may help out out out me.
  21. Else, if ya won't let my people slide, check this out, I will send swarms of flies on ya, and on your servants, and on your people, and into your houses: and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of swarms of flies, and also the ground whereon they are.
  22. I will yeeted in that day the land of Goshen, in which my people dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there; to the end ya may get it that I am Yahweh in the midst of the earth.
  23. I will put a division between my people and your people: by tomorrow shall this sign be.”’”
  24. Yahweh did so; and there came grievous swarms of flies into the house of Pharaoh, and into his servants’ houses: and in all the land of Egypt the land was corrupted by reason of the swarms of flies.
  25. Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron, and said, “slide, giving it up to your God in the land!”
  26. Moses said, “It isn’t appropriate to do so; for we shall giving it up the abomination of the Egyptians to Yahweh our God. check this out, shall we giving it up the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, and won’t they stone us?
  27. We will slide three days’ journey into the wilderness, and giving it up to Yahweh our God, as he shall command us.”
  28. Pharaoh said, “I will let ya slide, that ya may giving it up to Yahweh your God in the wilderness, only ya won't slide hella far away. Pray for me.”
  29. Moses said, “check this out, I slide out from ya, and I will pray to Yahweh that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people, tomorrow; only don’t let Pharaoh deal deceitfully any more in not letting the people slide to giving it up to Yahweh.”
  30. Moses went out from Pharaoh, and prayed to Yahweh.
  31. Yahweh did according to the word of Moses, and he removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people. there remained not one.
  32. Pharaoh hardened his heart this time also, and he didn’t let the people slide.
