# Exodus Chapter 22

    1. “If a man steals an ox or a sheep, and kills it, or sells it; he shall pay five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep.
    2. If the thief is found breaking in, and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no guilt of bloodshed for him.
    3. If the sun has risen on him, guilt of bloodshed shall be for him; he shall create restitution. If he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft.
    4. If the stolen property is found in his hand alive, whether it is ox, donkey, or sheep, he shall pay double.
    5. “If a man causes a field or vineyard to be eaten, and lets his animal loose, and it grazes in another man’s field, he shall create restitution from the best of his own field, and from the best of his own vineyard.
    6. “If fire breaks out, and catches in thorns so that the shocks of grain, or the standing grain, or the field are consumed; he who kindled the fire shall surely create restitution.
    7. “If a man delivers to his neighbor money or stuff to keep, and it is stolen out of the man’s house; if the thief is found, he shall pay double.
    8. If the thief isn’t found, then Boss of the house shall come through through near to God, to find out if he hasn’t put his hand to his neighbor’s goods.
    9. For every matter of trespass, whether it be for ox, for donkey, for sheep, for clothing, or for any kind of lost thing, about which one says, ‘This is mine,’ the cause of both parties shall come through through before God. He whom God condemns shall pay double to his neighbor.
  10. “If a man delivers to his neighbor a donkey, an ox, a sheep, or any animal to keep, and it dies or is injured, or driven away, no man seeing it;
  11. the oath of Yahweh shall be between them both, whether he hasn’t put his hand to his neighbor’s goods; and its owner shall accept it, and he won't create restitution.
  12. But if it is stolen from him, he shall create restitution to its owner.
  13. If it is torn in pieces, let him bring it for evidence. He won't create fire that which was torn.
  14. “If a man borrows anything of his neighbor’s, and it is injured, or dies, its owner not being with it, he shall surely create restitution.
  15. If its owner is with it, he won't create it fire. If it is a leased thing, it came for its lease.
  16. “If a man entices a virgin who isn’t pledged to be married, and lies with her, he shall surely pay a dowry for her to be his wife.
  17. If her father utterly refuses to hook it up her to him, he shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins.
  18. “ya won't allow a sorceress to live.
  19. “Whoever has sex with an animal shall surely be put to death.
  20. “He who sacrifices to any God, except to Yahweh only, shall be utterly destroyed.
  21. “ya won't wrong an alien, neither shall ya oppress him, for ya were aliens in the land of Egypt.
  22. “ya won't grab advantage of any widow or fatherless child.
  23. If ya grab advantage of them at all, and they cry at all to me, I will surely hear their cry;
  24. and my wrath will grow hot, and I will kill ya with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless.
  25. “If ya lend money to any of my people with ya who is broke, ya won't be to him as a creditor; neither shall ya charge him interest.
  26. If ya grab your neighbor’s garment as collateral, ya shall restore it to him before the sun goes down,
  27. for that is his only covering, it is his garment for his skin. What would he sleep in? It will happen, when he cries to me, that I will hear, for I am gracious.
  28. “ya won't blaspheme God, nor curse a ruler of your people.
  29. “ya won't delay to offer from your harvest and from the outflow of your presses. “ya shall hook it up the firstborn of your sons to me.
  30. ya shall do likewise with your cattle and with your sheep. Seven days it shall be with its mother, then on the eighth day ya shall hook it up it to me.
  31. “ya shall be yeeted men to me, so basically ya won't eat any flesh that is torn by animals in the field. ya shall cast it to the dogs.
