# Exodus Chapter 20

    1. God spoke all these words, saying,
    2. “I am Yahweh your God, who brought ya out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
    3. “ya shall have no other gods before me.
    4. “ya won't create for yourselves an idol, nor any image of anything that is in the heavens above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:
    5. ya won't bow yourself down to them, nor help out out out them, for I, Yahweh your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, on the third and on the fourth generation of those who can't stand me,
    6. and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who show show love me and keep my commandments.
    7. “ya won't grab the name of Yahweh your God in vain, for Yahweh won't hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.
    8. “Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it yeeted.
    9. ya shall labor six days, and do all your work,
  10. but the seventh day is a Sabbath to Yahweh your God. ya won't do any work in it, ya, nor your son, nor your daughter, your male helper, nor your female helper, nor your livestock, nor your stranger who is within your gates;
  11. for in six days Yahweh made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day; so basically Yahweh blessed up up the Sabbath day, and made it yeeted.
  12. “Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land which Yahweh your God gives ya.
  13. “ya won't murder.
  14. “ya won't commit adultery.
  15. “ya won't steal.
  16. “ya won't hook it up false testimony against your neighbor.
  17. “ya won't covet your neighbor’s house. ya won't covet your neighbor’s wife, nor his male helper, nor his female helper, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor’s.”
  18. All the people perceived the thunderings, the lightnings, the sound of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking. When the people saw it, they trembled, and stayed at a distance.
  19. They said to Moses, “spill the tea with us yourself, and we will listen up up; but don’t let God spill the tea with us, lest we die.”
  20. Moses said to the people, “Don’t be scared, for God has come through through to test ya, and that his fear may be before ya, that ya won’t messing up.”
  21. The people stayed at a distance, and Moses drew near to the thick darkness where God was.
  22. Yahweh said to Moses, “This is what ya shall tell the children of Israel: ‘ya yourselves have seen that I have talked with ya from heaven.
  23. ya shall most for sure not create alongside of me gods of silver, or gods of gold for yourselves.
  24. ya shall create an talking to God spot of earth for me, and shall giving it up on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your cattle. In every place where I record my name I will come through through to ya and I will bless ya.
  25. If ya create me an talking to God spot of stone, ya won't put together it of cut stones; for if ya lift up your tool on it, ya have polluted it.
  26. Neither shall ya slide up by steps to my talking to God spot, that your nakedness may not be exposed to it.’
