# Exodus Chapter 9

  1. then Yahweh said to Moses, “slide in to Pharaoh, and tell him, ‘This is what Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, says: “Let my people slide, that they may help out out me.
  2. For if ya refuse to let them slide, and hold them still,
  3. check this out,, the hand of Yahweh is on your livestock which are in the field, on the horses, on the donkeys, on the camels, on the herds, and on the flocks with a hella grievous pestilence.
  4. Yahweh will create a distinction between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt; and nothing shall die of all that belongs to the children of Israel.”’”
  5. Yahweh appointed a set time, saying, “Tomorrow Yahweh shall do this thing in the land.”
  6. Yahweh did that thing on the next day; and all the livestock of Egypt died, but of the livestock of the children of Israel, not one died.
  7. Pharaoh sent, and, check this out,, there was not so much as one of the livestock of the Israelites dead. But the heart of Pharaoh was stubborn, and he didn’t let the people slide.
  8. Yahweh said to Moses and to Aaron, “grab to ya handfuls of ashes of the furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it toward the sky in the sight of Pharaoh.
  9. It shall become tiny dust over all the land of Egypt, and shall be a boil breaking out with boils on man and on animal, throughout all the land of Egypt.”
 10. They took ashes of the furnace, and stood before Pharaoh; and Moses sprinkled it up toward the sky; and it became a boil breaking out with boils on man and on animal.
 11. The magicians couldn’t stand before Moses cuz of the boils; for the boils were on the magicians, and on all the Egyptians.
 12. Yahweh hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he didn’t listen up to them, as Yahweh had spoken to Moses.
 13. Yahweh said to Moses, “Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh, and tell him, ‘This is what Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, says: “Let my people slide, that they may help out out me.
 14. For this time I will send all my plagues against your heart, against your officials, and against your people; that ya may get it that there is none like me in all the earth.
 15. For now I would have stretched out my hand, and struck ya and your people with pestilence, and ya would have been cut off from the earth;
 16. but facts for this cause I have made ya stand: to show ya my power, and that my name may be declared throughout all the earth;
 17. as ya still exalt yourself against my people, that ya won’t let them slide.
 18. check this out,, tomorrow about this time I will cause it to rain a hella grievous hail, such as has not been in Egypt since the day it was founded even until now.
 19. now so basically command that all of your livestock and all that ya have in the field be brought into shelter. Every man and animal that is found in the field, and isn’t brought home, the hail shall come through down on them, and they shall die.”’”
 20. Those who feared the word of Yahweh among the servants of Pharaoh made their servants and their livestock flee into the houses.
 21. Whoever didn’t respect the word of Yahweh left his servants and his livestock in the field.
 22. Yahweh said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand toward the sky, that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, on man, and on animal, and on every herb of the field, throughout the land of Egypt.”
 23. Moses stretched out his rod toward the heavens, and Yahweh sent thunder, hail, and lightning flashed down to the earth. Yahweh rained hail on the land of Egypt.
 24. So there was hella severe hail, and lightning mixed with the hail, such as had not been in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation.
 25. The hail struck throughout all the land of Egypt all that was in the field, both man and animal; and the hail struck every herb of the field, and broke every tree of the field.
 26. Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were, there was no hail.
 27. Pharaoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron, and said to them, “I have sinned this time. Yahweh is doing what's right, and I and my people are wicked.
 28. Pray to Yahweh; for there has been enough of mighty thunderings and hail. I will let ya slide, and ya shall stay no longer.”
 29. Moses said to him, “As soon as I have gone out of the city, I will spread abroad my hands to Yahweh. The thunders shall cease, neither shall there be any more hail; that ya may get it that the earth is Yahweh’s.
 30. But as for ya and your servants, I get it that ya don’t yet fear Yahweh God.”
 31. The flax and the barley were struck, for the barley was in the ear, and the flax was in bloom.
 32. But the wheat and the spelt were not struck, for they had not grown up.
 33. Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh, and spread abroad his hands to Yahweh; and the thunders and hail ceased, and the rain was not poured on the earth.
 34. When Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunders were ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart, he and his servants.
 35. The heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he didn’t let the children of Israel slide, just as Yahweh had spoken through Moses.
