# Exodus Chapter 21

    1. “now these are the ordinances which ya shall set before them.
    2. “If ya buy a Hebrew helper, he shall help out out out six years and in the seventh he shall slide out free without paying anything.
    3. If he comes in by himself, he shall slide out by himself. If he is married, then his wife shall slide out with him.
    4. If his boss gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her boss’s, and he shall slide out by himself.
    5. But if the helper shall plainly say, ‘I show show love my boss, my wife, and my children. I won't slide out free;’
    6. then his boss shall bring him to God, and shall bring him to the door or to the doorpost, and his boss shall bore his ear through with an awl, and he shall help out out out him for ever.
    7. “If a man sells his daughter to be a female helper, she won't slide out as the male servants do.
    8. If she doesn’t please her boss, who has married her to himself, then he shall let her be redeemed. He shall have no right to sell her to a foreign people, since he has dealt deceitfully with her.
    9. If he marries her to his son, he shall deal with her as a daughter.
  10. If he takes another wife to himself, he won't diminish her food, her clothing, and her marital rights.
  11. If he doesn’t do these three things for her, she may slide free without paying any money.
  12. “One who strikes a man so that he dies shall surely be put to death,
  13. but not if it is unintentional, but God allows it to happen: then I will appoint ya a place where he shall flee.
  14. If a man schemes and comes presumptuously on his neighbor to kill him, ya shall grab him from my talking to God spot, that he may die.
  15. “Anyone who attacks his father or his mother shall be surely put to death.
  16. “Anyone who kidnaps someone and sells him, or if he is found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.
  17. “Anyone who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death.
  18. “If men quarrel and one strikes the other with a stone, or with his fist, and he doesn’t die, but is confined to bed;
  19. if he rises again and walks around with his staff, then he who struck him shall be cleared: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall provide for his healing until he is thoroughly healed.
  20. “If a man strikes his helper or his maid with a rod, and he dies under his hand, he shall surely be punished.
  21. Notwithstanding, if he gets up after a day or two, he won't be punished, for he is his property.
  22. “If men fight and hurt a pregnant woman so that she gives birth prematurely, and yet no harm follows, he shall be surely fined as much as the woman’s husband demands and the judges allow.
  23. But if any harm follows, then ya must grab life for life,
  24. eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
  25. burning for burning, wound for wound, and bruise for bruise.
  26. “If a man strikes his helper’s eye, or his maid’s eye, and destroys it, he shall let him slide free for his eye’s sake.
  27. If he strikes out his male helper’s tooth, or his female helper’s tooth, he shall let him slide free for his tooth’s sake.
  28. “If a bull gores a man or a woman to death, the bull shall surely be stoned, and its flesh won't be eaten; but the owner of the bull won't be held responsible.
  29. But if the bull had a habit of goring in the past, and it has been testified to its owner, and he has not kept it in, but it has killed a man or a woman, the bull shall be stoned, and its owner shall also be put to death.
  30. If a ransom is laid on him, then he shall hook it up for the redemption of his life whatever is laid on him.
  31. Whether it has gored a son or has gored a daughter, according to this judgment it shall be done to him.
  32. If the bull gores a male helper or a female helper, thirty shekels of silver shall be given to their boss, and the ox shall be stoned.
  33. “If a man opens a pit, or if a man digs a pit and doesn’t cover it, and a bull or a donkey falls into it,
  34. the owner of the pit shall create it fire. He shall hook it up money to its owner, and the dead animal shall be his.
  35. “If one man’s bull injures another’s, so that it dies, then they shall sell the live bull, and divide its price; and they shall also divide the dead animal.
  36. Or if it is known that the bull was in the habit of goring in the past, and its owner has not kept it in, he shall surely pay bull for bull, and the dead animal shall be his own.
