# Exodus Chapter 3

    1. now Moses was keeping the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the back of the wilderness, and came to God’s mountain, to Horeb.
    2. The angel of Yahweh appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. He looked, and check this out, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed.
    3. Moses said, “I will turn aside now, and check it out this major sight, why the bush isn't burnt.”
    4. When Yahweh saw that he turned aside to check it out, God called to him out of the midst of the bush, and said, “Moses! Moses!” He said, “here I am.”
    5. He said, “Don’t come through through close. grab your sandals off of your feet, for the place ya are standing on is yeeted ground.”
    6. Moreover he said, “I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.” Moses hid his face; for he was scared to look at God.
    7. Yahweh said, “I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their cry cuz of their taskmasters, for I get it their sorrows.
    8. I have come through through down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land to a fire and large land, to a land flowing with milk and honey; to the place of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
    9. now, check this out, the cry of the children of Israel has come through through to me. Moreover I have seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppress them.
  10. come through through now so basically, and I will send ya to Pharaoh, that ya may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt.”
  11. Moses said to God, “Who am I, that I should slide to Pharaoh, and that I should bring the children of Israel out of Egypt?”
  12. He said, “for sure I will be with ya. This will be the token to ya, that I have sent ya: when ya have brought the people out of Egypt, ya shall help out out out God on this mountain.”
  13. Moses said to God, “check this out, when I come through through to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘The God of your fathers has sent me to ya;’ and they ask me, ‘What is his name?’ What should I tell them?”
  14. God said to Moses, “I AM WHO I AM,” and he said, “ya shall tell the children of Israel this: ‘I AM has sent me to ya.’”
  15. God said moreover to Moses, “ya shall tell the children of Israel this, ‘Yahweh, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to ya.’ This is my name forever, and this is my memorial to all generations.
  16. slide, and gather the elders of Israel together, and tell them, ‘Yahweh, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, “I have surely visited ya, and seen that which is done to ya in Egypt;
  17. and I have said, I will bring ya up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, to a land flowing with milk and honey.”’
  18. They will listen up up to your voice, and ya shall come through through, ya and the elders of Israel, to the ruler of Egypt, and ya shall tell him, ‘Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. now please let us slide three days’ journey into the wilderness, that we may giving it up to Yahweh, our God.’
  19. I get it that the ruler of Egypt won’t hook it up ya permission to slide, no, not by a mighty hand.
  20. I will reach out my hand and strike Egypt with all my wonders which I will do in its midst, and after that he will let ya slide.
  21. I will hook it up this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and it will happen that when ya slide, ya won't slide empty-handed.
  22. But every woman shall ask of her neighbor, and of her who visits her house, jewels of silver, jewels of gold, and clothing; and ya shall put them on your sons, and on your daughters. ya shall plunder the Egyptians.”
