# Exodus Chapter 26

  1. “Moreover ya shall create the tabernacle with ten curtains; of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, with cherubim. The work of the skillful workman ya shall create them.
  2. The length of each curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits: all the curtains shall have one measure.
  3. Five curtains shall be coupled together one to another; and the other five curtains shall be coupled one to another.
  4. ya shall create loops of blue on the edge of the one curtain from the edge in the coupling; and likewise ya shall create in the edge of the curtain that is outmost in the second coupling.
  5. ya shall create fifty loops in the one curtain, and ya shall create fifty loops in the edge of the curtain that is in the second coupling. The loops shall be opposite one to another.
  6. ya shall create fifty clasps of gold, and couple the curtains one to another with the clasps: and the tabernacle shall be a unit.
  7. “ya shall create curtains of goats’ hair for a covering over the tabernacle. ya shall create them eleven curtains.
  8. The length of each curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits: the eleven curtains shall have one measure.
  9. ya shall couple five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves, and shall double over the sixth curtain in the forefront of the tent.
 10. ya shall create fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that is outmost in the coupling, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain which is outmost in the second coupling.
 11. ya shall create fifty clasps of brass, and put the clasps into the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one.
 12. The overhanging part that remains of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remains, shall hang over the back of the tabernacle.
 13. The cubit on the one side, and the cubit on the other side, of that which remains in the length of the curtains of the tent, shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and on that side, to cover it.
 14. ya shall create a covering for the tent of rams’ skins dyed red, and a covering of sea cow hides above.
 15. “ya shall create the boards for the tabernacle of acacia wood, standing up.
 16. Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and one and a half cubits the breadth of each board.
 17. there shall be two tenons in each board, joined to one another: thus ya shall create for all the boards of the tabernacle.
 18. ya shall create the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards for the south side southward.
 19. ya shall create forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for its two tenons, and two sockets under another board for its two tenons.
 20. For the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, twenty boards,
 21. and their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
 22. For the far part of the tabernacle westward ya shall create six boards.
 23. ya shall create two boards for the corners of the tabernacle in the far part.
 24. They shall be double beneath, and in the same way they shall be whole to its top to one ring: thus shall it be for them both; they shall be for the two corners.
 25. there shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
 26. “ya shall create bars of acacia wood: five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
 27. and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle, for the far part westward.
 28. The middle bar in the midst of the boards shall pass through from end to end.
 29. ya shall overlay the boards with gold, and create their rings of gold for places for the bars: and ya shall overlay the bars with gold.
 30. ya shall set up the tabernacle according to the way that it was shown to ya on the mountain.
 31. “ya shall create a veil of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, with cherubim. The work of the skillful workman shall it be made.
 32. ya shall hang it on four pillars of acacia overlaid with gold; their hooks shall be of gold, on four sockets of silver.
 33. ya shall hang up the veil under the clasps, and shall bring the ark of the testimony in there within the veil: and the veil shall separate the set apart place from the most set apart for ya.
 34. ya shall put the mercy seat on the ark of the testimony in the most set apart place.
 35. ya shall set the table outside the veil, and the lampstand over against the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south: and ya shall put the table on the north side.
 36. “ya shall create a screen for the door of the Tent, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the embroiderer.
 37. ya shall create for the screen five pillars of acacia, and overlay them with gold: their hooks shall be of gold: and ya shall cast five sockets of brass for them.
