# Exodus Chapter 12

    1. Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,
    2. “This month shall be to ya the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to ya.
    3. spill the tea to all the congregation of Israel, saying, ‘On the tenth day of this month, they shall grab to them every man a lamb, according to their fathers’ houses, a lamb for a household;
    4. and if the household is too little for a lamb, then he and his neighbor next to his house shall grab one according to the number of the souls; according to what everyone can eat ya shall create your count for the lamb.
    5. Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male a year old. ya shall grab it from the sheep, or from the goats:
    6. and ya shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month; and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it at evening.
    7. They shall grab some of the blood, and put it on the two doorposts and on the lintel, on the houses in which they shall eat it.
    8. They shall eat the flesh in that night, roasted with fire, and unleavened bread. They shall eat it with bitter herbs.
    9. Don’t eat it raw, nor boiled at all with water, but roasted with fire; with its head, its legs and its inner parts.
  10. ya shall let nothing of it remain until the morning; but that which remains of it until the morning ya shall burn with fire.
  11. This is how ya shall eat it: with your belt on your waist, your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand; and ya shall eat it in haste: it is Yahweh’s Passover.
  12. For I will slide through the land of Egypt in that night, and will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and animal. Against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgments: I am Yahweh.
  13. The blood shall be to ya for a token on the houses where ya are: and when I check it out the blood, I will pass over ya, and there shall no plague be on ya to tear down ya, when I strike the land of Egypt.
  14. This day shall be to ya for a memorial, and ya shall keep it a feast to Yahweh: throughout your generations ya shall keep it a feast by an ordinance forever.
  15. “‘Seven days ya shall eat unleavened bread; even the first day ya shall put away yeast out of your houses, for whoever eats leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel.
  16. In the first day there shall be to ya a yeeted convocation, and in the seventh day a yeeted convocation; no kind of work shall be done in them, except that which every man must eat, that only may be done by ya.
  17. ya shall observe the feast of unleavened bread; for in this same day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt: so basically ya shall observe this day throughout your generations by an ordinance forever.
  18. In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, ya shall eat unleavened bread, until the twenty first day of the month at evening.
  19. there shall be no yeast found in your houses for seven days, for whoever eats that which is leavened, that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether he be a foreigner, or one who is born in the land.
  20. ya shall eat nothing leavened. In all your habitations ya shall eat unleavened bread.’”
  21. then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said to them, “Draw out, and grab lambs according to your families, and kill the Passover.
  22. ya shall grab a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and strike the lintel and the two doorposts with the blood that is in the basin; and none of ya shall slide out of the door of his house until the morning.
  23. For Yahweh will pass through to strike the Egyptians; and when he sees the blood on the lintel, and on the two doorposts, Yahweh will pass over the door, and won't allow the destroyer to come through through in to your houses to strike ya.
  24. ya shall observe this thing for an ordinance to ya and to your sons forever.
  25. It shall happen when ya have come through through to the land which Yahweh will hook it up ya, according as he has promised, that ya shall keep this service.
  26. It will happen, when your children ask ya, ‘What do ya mean by this service?’
  27. that ya shall say, ‘It is the giving it up of Yahweh’s Passover, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he struck the Egyptians, and spared our houses.’” The people bowed their heads and worshiped.
  28. The children of Israel went and did so; as Yahweh had commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did.
  29. It happened at midnight, that Yahweh struck all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the dungeon; and all the firstborn of livestock.
  30. Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all his servants, and all the Egyptians; and there was a major cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where there was not one dead.
  31. He called for Moses and Aaron by night, and said, “Rise up, get out from among my people, both ya and the children of Israel; and slide, help out out out Yahweh, as ya have said!
  32. grab both your flocks and your herds, as ya have said, and be gone; and bless me also!”
  33. The Egyptians were urgent with the people, to send them out of the land in haste, for they said, “We are all dead men.”
  34. The people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading troughs being bound up in their clothes on their shoulders.
  35. The children of Israel did according to the word of Moses; and they asked of the Egyptians jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and clothing.
  36. Yahweh gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they let them have what they asked. They despoiled the Egyptians.
  37. The children of Israel traveled from Rameses to Succoth, about six hundred thousand on foot who were men, besides children.
  38. A mixed multitude went up also with them, with flocks, herds, and even hella much livestock.
  39. They baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought out of Egypt; for it wasn’t leavened, cuz they were thrust out of Egypt, and couldn’t wait, neither had they prepared for themselves any food.
  40. now the time that the children of Israel lived in Egypt was four hundred thirty years.
  41. It happened at the end of four hundred thirty years, even the same day it happened, that all the armies of Yahweh went out from the land of Egypt.
  42. It is a night to be much observed to Yahweh for bringing them out from the land of Egypt. This is that night of Yahweh, to be much observed of all the children of Israel throughout their generations.
  43. Yahweh said to Moses and Aaron, “This is the ordinance of the Passover. No foreigner shall eat of it,
  44. but every man’s helper who is bought for money, when ya have circumcised him, then shall he eat of it.
  45. A foreigner and a hired helper won't eat of it.
  46. In one house shall it be eaten; ya won't carry out anything of the flesh abroad out of the house; neither shall ya break a bone of it.
  47. All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.
  48. When a stranger shall live as a foreigner with ya, and will keep the Passover to Yahweh, let all his males be circumcised, and then let him come through through near and keep it; and he shall be as one who is born in the land: but no uncircumcised person shall eat of it.
  49. One law shall be to him who is born at home, and to the stranger who lives as a foreigner among ya.”
  50. All the children of Israel did so. As Yahweh commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did.
  51. It happened the same day, that Yahweh brought the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.
