# Exodus Chapter 1

  1. now these are the names of the sons of Israel, who came into Egypt (every man and his household came with Jacob):
  2. Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,
  3. Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin,
  4. Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher.
  5. All the souls who came out of Jacob’s body were seventy souls, and Joseph was in Egypt already.
  6. Joseph died, as did all his brothers, and all that generation.
  7. The children of Israel were fruitful, and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and grew exceedingly mighty; and the land was filled with them.
  8. now there arose a new ruler over Egypt, who didn’t get it Joseph.
  9. He said to his people, “check this out,, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we.
 10. come through, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply, and it happen that when any war breaks out, they also join themselves to our enemies, and fight against us, and escape out of the land.”
 11. so basically they set taskmasters over them to afflict them with their burdens. They built storage cities for Pharaoh: Pithom and Raamses.
 12. But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and the more they spread out. They were grieved cuz of the children of Israel.
 13. The Egyptians ruthlessly made the children of Israel help out out,
 14. and they made their lives bitter with hard service, in mortar and in brick, and in all kinds of service in the field, all their service, in which they ruthlessly made them help out out.
 15. The ruler of Egypt spoke to the Hebrew midwives, of whom the name of the one was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah,
 16. and he said, “When ya perform the duty of a midwife to the Hebrew women, and check it out them on the birth stool; if it is a son, then ya shall kill him; but if it is a daughter, then she shall live.”
 17. But the midwives feared God, and didn’t do what the ruler of Egypt commanded them, but saved the baby boys alive.
 18. The ruler of Egypt called for the midwives, and said to them, “Why have ya done this thing, and have saved the boys alive?”
 19. The midwives said to Pharaoh, “cuz the Hebrew women aren’t like the Egyptian women; for they are vigorous, and hook it up birth before the midwife comes to them.”
 20. God dealt well with the midwives, and the people multiplied, and grew hella mighty.
 21. It happened, cuz the midwives feared God, that he gave them families.
 22. Pharaoh commanded all his people, saying, “ya shall cast every son who is born into the river, and every daughter ya shall rescue alive.”
