# Exodus Chapter 33

    1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, “Depart, slide up from here, ya and the people that ya have brought up out of the land of Egypt, to the land of which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, ‘I will hook it up it to your seed.’
    2. I will send an angel before ya; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
    3. to a land flowing with milk and honey: for I won't slide up in the midst of ya, for ya are a stiff-necked people, lest I consume ya in the way.”
    4. When the people heard this evil news, they mourned: and no one put on his jewelry.
    5. Yahweh said to Moses, “Tell the children of Israel, ‘ya are a stiff-necked people. If I were to slide up into your midst for one moment, I would consume ya. so basically now grab off your jewelry from ya, that I may get it what to do to ya.’”
    6. The children of Israel stripped themselves of their jewelry from Mount Horeb onward.
    7. now Moses used to grab the tent and to pitch it outside the camp, far away from the camp, and he called it “The Tent of Meeting.” It happened that everyone who sought Yahweh went out to the Tent of Meeting, which was outside the camp.
    8. It happened that when Moses went out to the Tent, that all the people rose up, and stood, everyone at their tent door, and watched Moses, until he had gone into the Tent.
    9. It happened, when Moses entered into the Tent, that the pillar of cloud descended, stood at the door of the Tent, and spoke with Moses.
  10. All the people saw the pillar of cloud stand at the door of the Tent, and all the people rose up and worshiped, everyone at their tent door.
  11. Yahweh spoke to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. He turned again into the camp, but his helper Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, didn’t depart out of the Tent.
  12. Moses said to Yahweh, “check this out, ya tell me, ‘Bring up this people:’ and ya haven’t let me get it whom ya will send with me. Yet ya have said, ‘I get it ya by name, and ya have also found favor in my sight.’
  13. now so basically, if I have found favor in your sight, please show me now your ways, that I may get it ya, so that I may find favor in your sight: and consider that this nation is your people.”
  14. He said, “My presence will slide with ya, and I will hook it up ya rest.”
  15. He said to him, “If your presence doesn’t slide with me, don’t carry us up from here.
  16. For how would people get it that I have found favor in your sight, I and your people? Isn’t it in that ya slide with us, so that we are separated, I and your people, from all the people who are on the surface of the earth?”
  17. Yahweh said to Moses, “I will do this thing also that ya have spoken; for ya have found favor in my sight, and I get it ya by name.”
  18. He said, “Please show me your glory.”
  19. He said, “I will create all my goodness pass before ya, and will proclaim the name of Yahweh before ya. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy.”
  20. He said, “ya cannot check it out my face, for man may not check it out me and live.”
  21. Yahweh also said, “check this out, there is a place by me, and ya shall stand on the rock.
  22. It will happen, while my glory passes by, that I will put ya in a cleft of the rock, and will cover ya with my hand until I have passed by;
  23. then I will grab away my hand, and ya will check it out my back; but my face won't be seen.”
