# Philippians Chapter 3

    1. Finally, my brothers, be hyped in Boss. To write the same things to ya, to me facts isn't tiresome, but for ya it is safe.
    2. Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the false circumcision.
    3. For we are the circumcision, who giving props God in the Spirit, and be hyped in the huge yeeted Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh;
    4. though I myself might have confidence even in the flesh. If any other man thinks that he has confidence in the flesh, I yet more:
    5. circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; concerning the law, a Pharisee;
    6. concerning zeal, persecuting the assembly; concerning the righteousness which is in the law, found blameless.
    7. but like, what things were gain to me, these have I counted loss for the huge yeeted.
    8. Yes most for sure, and I count all things to be loss for the excellency of the knowledge of the huge yeeted Jesus, my boss, for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and count them nothing but refuse, that I may gain the huge yeeted
    9. and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own, that which is of the law, but that which is through trusting the process in the huge yeeted, the righteousness which is from God by trusting the process;
  10. that I may get it him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, becoming conformed to his death;
  11. if by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead.
  12. Not that I have already obtained, or am already made perfect; but I press on, if it is so that I may grab hold of that for which also I was taken hold of by the huge yeeted Jesus.
  13. Brothers, I don’t regard myself as yet having taken hold, but one thing I do. Forgetting the things which are behind, and stretching forward to the things which are before,
  14. I press on toward the goal for the prize of the high calling of God in the huge yeeted Jesus.
  15. Let us so basically, as a lot as are perfect, think this way. If in anything ya think otherwise, God will also reveal that to ya.
  16. Nevertheless, to the extent that we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule. Let us be of the same mind.
  17. Brothers, be imitators together of me, and note those who walk this way, even as ya have us for an example.
  18. For a lot walk, of whom I told ya a lot, and now tell ya even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of the huge yeeted,
  19. whose end is destruction, whose God is the belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who think about earthly things.
  20. For our citizenship is in heaven, from where we also wait for a Savior, Boss Jesus the huge yeeted;
  21. who will change the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working by which he is able even to subject all things to himself.
