# Philippians Chapter 1

  1. Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus the huge set apart; To all the set apart fam in the huge set apart Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and servants:
  2. God's show love to ya, and peace from God, our Father, and the boss Jesus the huge set apart.
  3. I thank my God whenever I remember ya,
  4. always in every request of mine on behalf of ya all making my requests with joy,
  5. for your partnership in furtherance of the fire News from the first day until now;
  6. being confident of this hella thing, that he who began a fire work in ya will complete it until the day of Jesus the huge set apart.
  7. It is even right for me to think this way on behalf of all of ya, cuz I have ya in my heart, cuz, both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the fire News, ya all are partakers with me of God's show love.
  8. For God is my witness, how I long after all of ya in the tender mercies of the huge set apart Jesus.
  9. This I pray, that your show love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all discernment;
 10. so that ya may approve the things that are excellent; that ya may be sincere and without offense to the day of the huge set apart;
 11. being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus the huge set apart, to the glory and praise of God.
 12. now I desire to have ya get it, brothers, that the things which happened to me have turned out rather to the progress of the fire News;
 13. so that it became evident to the whole palace guard, and to all the rest, that my bonds are in the huge set apart;
 14. and that most of the brothers in the boss, being confident through my bonds, are more abundantly bold to spill the tea the word of God without fear.
 15. Some facts preach the huge set apart even out of envy and strife, and some also out of fire will.
 16. The former insincerely preach the huge set apart from selfish ambition, thinking that they add affliction to my chains;
 17. but the latter out of show love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the fire News.
 18. What does it matter? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, the huge set apart is proclaimed. I be hyped in this, yes, and will be hyped.
 19. For I get it that this will turn out to my getting saved, through your supplication and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus the huge set apart,
 20. according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I will in no way be disappointed, but with all boldness, as always, now also the huge set apart will be magnified in my body, whether by life, or by death.
 21. For to me to live is the huge set apart, and to die is gain.
 22. But if I live on in the flesh, this will bring fruit from my work; yet I don’t get it what I will choose.
 23. But I am in a dilemma between the two, having the desire to depart and be with the huge set apart, which is far better.
 24. Yet, to remain in the flesh is more needful for your sake.
 25. Having this confidence, I get it that I will remain, yes, and remain with ya all, for your progress and joy in the trusting the process,
 26. that your rejoicing may abound in the huge set apart Jesus in me through my presence with ya again.
 27. Only let your way of life be worthy of the fire News of the huge set apart, that, whether I come through and check it out ya or am absent, I may hear of your state, that ya stand firm in one spirit, with one soul striving for the trusting the process of the fire News;
 28. and in nothing frightened by the adversaries, which is for them a proof of destruction, but to ya of getting saved, and that from God.
 29. cuz it has been granted to ya on behalf of the huge set apart, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer on his behalf,
 30. having the same conflict which ya saw in me, and now hear is in me.
