================================================================================
THE GENZ BIBLE TRANSLATION
Making the Bible lit for the new generation
================================================================================

OLD TESTAMENT
==================================================


AMOS
----

# Amos Chapter 1

  1. The words of Amos, who was among the herdsmen of Tekoa, which he checked out concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah ruler of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash ruler of Israel, two years before the earthquake.
  2. He said: “Yahweh will roar from Zion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem; and the pastures of the shepherds will mourn, and the top of Carmel will wither.”
  3. Thus says Yahweh: “For three transgressions of Damascus, yes, for four, I will not turn away its punishment; cuz they have threshed Gilead with threshing instruments of iron;
  4. but I will send a fire into the house of Hazael, and it will devour the palaces of Ben Hadad.
  5. I will break the bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitant from the valley of Aven, and him who holds the scepter from the house of Eden; and the people of Syria shall slide into captivity to Kir,” says Yahweh.
  6. Thus says Yahweh: “For three transgressions of Gaza, yes, for four, I will not turn away its punishment; cuz they carried away captive the whole community, to deliver them up to Edom;
  7. but I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza, and it will devour its palaces.
  8. I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod, and him who holds the scepter from Ashkelon; and I will turn my hand against Ekron; and the remnant of the Philistines will perish,” says the boss Yahweh.
  9. Thus says Yahweh: “For three transgressions of Tyre, yes, for four, I will not turn away its punishment; cuz they delivered up the whole community to Edom, and didn’t remember the brotherly God's promise;
 10. but I will send a fire on the wall of Tyre, and it will devour its palaces.”
 11. Thus says Yahweh: “For three transgressions of Edom, yes, for four, I will not turn away its punishment; cuz he pursued his brother with the sword, and cast off all pity, and his anger raged continually, and he kept his wrath forever;
 12. but I will send a fire on Teman, and it will devour the palaces of Bozrah.”
 13. Thus says Yahweh: “For three transgressions of the children of Ammon, yes, for four, I will not turn away its punishment; cuz they have ripped open the pregnant women of Gilead, that they may enlarge their border.
 14. But I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah, and it will devour its palaces, with shouting in the day of battle, with a storm in the day of the whirlwind;
 15. and their ruler will slide into captivity, he and his princes together,” says Yahweh.

# Amos Chapter 2

  1. Thus says Yahweh: “For three transgressions of Moab, yes, for four, I will not turn away its punishment; cuz he burned the bones of the ruler of Edom into lime;
  2. but I will send a fire on Moab, and it will devour the palaces of Kerioth; and Moab will die with tumult, with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet;
  3. and I will cut off the judge from their midst, and will kill all its princes with him,” says Yahweh.
  4. Thus says Yahweh: “For three transgressions of Judah, yes, for four, I will not turn away its punishment; cuz they have rejected Yahweh’s law, and have not kept his statutes, and their lies have led them astray, after which their fathers walked;
  5. But I will send a fire on Judah, and it will devour the palaces of Jerusalem.”
  6. Thus says Yahweh: “For three transgressions of Israel, yes, for four, I will not turn away its punishment; cuz they have sold the doing what's right for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes;
  7. They trample on the dust of the earth on the head of the broke, and deny justice to the oppressed; and a man and his father use the same maiden, to profane my set apart name;
  8. and they lay themselves down beside every prayer spot on clothes taken in pledge; and in the house of their God they drink the wine of those who have been fined.
  9. Yet I destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars, and he was built different as the oaks; yet I destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath.
 10. Also I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and led you forty years in the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite.
 11. I raised up some of your sons for prophets, and some of your young men for Nazirites. Isn’t this true, you children of Israel?” says Yahweh.
 12. “But you gave the Nazirites wine to drink, and commanded the prophets, saying, ‘Don’t prophesy!’
 13. check this out, I will crush you in your place, as a cart crushes that is full of grain.
 14. Flight will perish from the swift; and the built different won’t strengthen his force; neither shall the mighty deliver himself;
 15. neither shall he stand who handles the bow; and he who is swift of foot won’t escape; neither shall he who rides the horse deliver himself;
 16. and he who is courageous among the mighty will flee away naked on that day,” says Yahweh.

# Amos Chapter 3

  1. Hear this word that Yahweh has spoken against you, children of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up out of the land of Egypt, saying:
  2. “You only have I chosen of all the families of the earth. so basically I will punish you for all of your sins.”
  3. Do two walk together, unless they have agreed?
  4. Will a lion roar in the thicket, when he has no prey? Does a young lion cry out of his den, if he has caught nothing?
  5. Can a bird fall in a trap on the earth, where no snare is set for him? Does a snare spring up from the ground, when there is nothing to catch?
  6. Does the trumpet alarm sound in a city, without the people being scared? Does evil happen to a city, and Yahweh hasn’t done it?
  7. Surely the boss Yahweh will do nothing, unless he reveals his secret to his servants the prophets.
  8. The lion has roared. Who will not fear? The boss Yahweh has spoken. Who can but prophesy?
  9. Proclaim in the palaces at Ashdod, and in the palaces in the land of Egypt, and say, “Assemble yourselves on the mountains of Samaria, and check it out what unrest is in her, and what oppression is among them.”
 10. “facts they don’t get it to do right,” says Yahweh, “Who hoard plunder and loot in their palaces.”
 11. so basically God's like Yahweh: “An adversary will overrun the land; and he will pull down your strongholds, and your fortresses will be plundered.”
 12. Thus says Yahweh: “As the shepherd rescues out of the mouth of the lion two legs, or a piece of an ear, so shall the children of Israel be rescued who sit in Samaria on the corner of a couch, and on the silken cushions of a bed.”
 13. “listen up, and testify against the house of Jacob,” says the boss Yahweh, the God of Armies.
 14. “For in the day that I visit the transgressions of Israel on him, I will also visit the altars of Bethel; and the horns of the prayer spot will be cut off, and fall to the ground.
 15. I will strike the winter house with the summer house; and the houses of ivory will perish, and the major houses will have an end,” says Yahweh.

# Amos Chapter 4

  1. listen up to this word, you cows of Bashan, who are on the mountain of Samaria, who oppress the broke, who crush the needy, who tell their husbands, “Bring us drinks!”
  2. The boss Yahweh has sworn by his holiness that check this out, “The days shall come through on you that they will grab you away with hooks, and the last of you with fish hooks.
  3. You will slide out at the breaks in the wall, everyone straight before her; and you will cast yourselves into Harmon,” says Yahweh.
  4. “slide to Bethel, and messing up; to Gilgal, and messing up more. Bring your sacrifices every morning, your tithes every three days,
  5. offer a giving it up of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, and proclaim free will offerings and brag about them: for this pleases you, you children of Israel,” says the boss Yahweh.
  6. “I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and lack of bread in every town; yet you haven’t returned to me,” says Yahweh.
  7. “I also have withheld the rain from you, when there were yet three months to the harvest; and I caused it to rain on one city, and caused it not to rain on another city. One place was rained on, and the piece where it didn’t rain withered.
  8. So two or three cities staggered to one city to drink water, and were not satisfied: yet you haven’t returned to me,” says Yahweh.
  9. “I struck you with blight and mildew a lot times in your gardens and your vineyards; and your fig trees and your olive trees have the swarming locust devoured: yet you haven’t returned to me,” says Yahweh.
 10. “I sent plagues among you like I did Egypt. I have slain your young men with the sword, and have carried away your horses; and I filled your nostrils with the stench of your camp, yet you haven’t returned to me,” says Yahweh.
 11. “I have overthrown some of you, as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and you were like a burning stick plucked out of the fire; yet you haven’t returned to me,” says Yahweh.
 12. “so basically thus will I do to you, Israel; cuz I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, Israel.
 13. For, check this out, he who forms the mountains, and creates the wind, and declares to man what is his thought; who makes the morning darkness, and treads on the high places of the earth: Yahweh, the God of Armies, is his name.”

# Amos Chapter 5

  1. listen up to this word which I grab up for a lamentation over you, O house of Israel.
  2. “The virgin of Israel has fallen; She shall rise no more. She is cast down on her land; there is no one to raise her up.”
  3. For God's like Yahweh: “The city that went forth a thousand shall have a hundred left, and that which went forth one hundred shall have ten left to the house of Israel.”
  4. For thus says Yahweh to the house of Israel: “Seek me, and you will live;
  5. but don’t seek Bethel, nor enter into Gilgal, and don’t pass to Beersheba: for Gilgal shall surely slide into captivity, and Bethel shall come through to nothing.
  6. Seek Yahweh, and you will live; lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph, and it devour, and there be no one to quench it in Bethel.
  7. You who turn justice to wormwood, and cast down righteousness to the earth:
  8. seek him who made the Pleiades and Orion, and turns the shadow of death into the morning, and makes the day dark with night; who calls for the waters of the sea, and pours them out on the surface of the earth, Yahweh is his name,
  9. who brings sudden destruction on the built different, so that destruction comes on the fortress.
 10. They can't stand him who reproves in the gate, and they abhor him who speaks blamelessly.
 11. Forasmuch so basically as you trample on the broke, and grab taxes from him of wheat: You have built houses of cut stone, but you will not dwell in them. You have planted pleasant vineyards, but you shall not drink their wine.
 12. For I get it how a lot your offenses, and how major are your sins—you who afflict the just, who grab a bribe, and who turn aside the needy in the courts.
 13. so basically a prudent person keeps silent in such a time, for it is an evil time.
 14. Seek fire, and not evil, that you may live; and so Yahweh, the God of Armies, will be with you, as you say.
 15. can't stand evil, show love fire, and establish justice in the courts. It may be that Yahweh, the God of Armies, will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph.”
 16. so basically thus says Yahweh, the God of Armies, the boss: “Wailing will be in all the broad ways; and they will say in all the streets, ‘Alas! Alas!’ and they will call the farmer to mourning, and those who are skillful in lamentation to wailing.
 17. In all vineyards there will be wailing; for I will pass through the midst of you,” says Yahweh.
 18. “Woe to you who desire the day of Yahweh! Why do you long for the day of Yahweh? It is darkness, and not light.
 19. As if a man fled from a lion, and a bear met him; Or he went into the house and leaned his hand on the wall, and a snake bit him.
 20. Won’t the day of Yahweh be darkness, and not light? Even hella dark, and no brightness in it?
 21. I can't stand, I despise your feasts, and I can’t stand your solemn assemblies.
 22. Yes, though you offer me your burnt offerings and meal offerings, I will not accept them; neither will I regard the peace offerings of your fat animals.
 23. grab away from me the noise of your songs! I will not listen up to the music of your harps.
 24. But let justice roll on like rivers, and righteousness like a mighty stream.
 25. “Did you bring to me sacrifices and offerings in the wilderness forty years, house of Israel?
 26. You also carried the tent of your ruler and the shrine of your images, the star of your god, which you made for yourselves.
 27. so basically will I cause you to slide into captivity beyond Damascus,” says Yahweh, whose name is the God of Armies.

# Amos Chapter 6

  1. Woe to those who are at ease in Zion, and to those who are secure on the mountain of Samaria, the notable men of the chief of the nations, to whom the house of Israel come through!
  2. slide to Calneh, and check it out; and from there slide to Hamath the major; then slide down to Gath of the Philistines. are they better than these kingdoms? or is their border greater than your border?
  3. Those who put far away the evil day, and cause the seat of violence to come through near;
  4. Who lie on beds of ivory, and stretch themselves on their couches, and eat the lambs out of the flock, and the calves out of the midst of the stall;
  5. who strum on the strings of a harp; who invent for themselves instruments of music, like David;
  6. who drink wine in bowls, and anoint themselves with the best oils; but they are not grieved for the affliction of Joseph.
  7. so basically they will now slide captive with the first who slide captive; and the feasting and lounging will end.
  8. “The boss Yahweh has sworn by himself,” says Yahweh, the God of Armies: “I abhor the pride of Jacob, and detest his fortresses. so basically I will deliver up the city with all that is in it.
  9. It will happen, if there remain ten men in one house, that they shall die.
 10. “When a man’s relative carries him, even he who burns him, to bring bodies out of the house, and asks him who is in the innermost parts of the house, ‘Is there yet any with you?’ And he says, ‘No;’ then he will say, ‘Hush! facts we must not mention the name of Yahweh.’
 11. “For, check this out, Yahweh commands, and the major house will be smashed to pieces, and the little house into bits.
 12. Do horses run on the rocky crags? Does one plow there with oxen? But you have turned justice into poison, and the fruit of righteousness into bitterness;
 13. you who be hyped in a thing of nothing, who say, ‘Haven’t we taken for ourselves horns by our own strength?’
 14. For, check this out, I will raise up against you a nation, house of Israel,” says Yahweh, the God of Armies; “and they will afflict you from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of the Arabah.”

# Amos Chapter 7

  1. Thus the boss Yahweh showed me: and check this out, he formed locusts at the start of the shooting up of the latter growth; and check this out, it was the latter growth after the ruler’s harvest.
  2. It happened that, when they made an end of eating the grass of the land, then I said, “boss Yahweh, forgive, I beg you! How could Jacob stand? For he is tiny.”
  3. Yahweh relented concerning this. “It shall not be,” says Yahweh.
  4. Thus the boss Yahweh showed me and check this out, the boss Yahweh called for judgment by fire; and it dried up the major deep, and would have devoured the land.
  5. then I said, “boss Yahweh, stop, I beg you! How could Jacob stand? For he is tiny.”
  6. Yahweh relented concerning this. “This also shall not be,” says the boss Yahweh.
  7. Thus he showed me and check this out, the boss stood beside a wall made by a plumb line, with a plumb line in his hand.
  8. Yahweh said to me, “Amos, what do you check it out?” I said, “A plumb line.” then the boss said, “check this out, I will set a plumb line in the midst of my people Israel. I will not again pass by them any more.
  9. The high places of Isaac will be desolate, the sanctuaries of Israel will be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.”
 10. then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam ruler of Israel, saying, “Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to bear all his words.
 11. For Amos says, ‘Jeroboam will die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.’”
 12. Amaziah also said to Amos, “You seer, slide, flee away into the land of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there:
 13. but don’t prophesy again any more at Bethel; for it is the ruler’s sanctuary, and it is a royal house!”
 14. then Amos answered Amaziah, “I was no God's messenger, neither was I a God's messenger’s son; but I was a herdsman, and a farmer of sycamore figs;
 15. and Yahweh took me from following the flock, and Yahweh said to me, ‘slide, prophesy to my people Israel.’
 16. now so basically listen up to the word of Yahweh: ‘You say, Don’t prophesy against Israel, and don’t preach against the house of Isaac.’
 17. so basically thus says Yahweh: ‘Your wife shall be a prostitute in the city, and your sons and your daughters shall fall by the sword, and your land shall be divided by line; and you yourself shall die in a land that is unclean, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.’”

# Amos Chapter 8

  1. Thus the boss Yahweh showed me: check this out, a basket of summer fruit.
  2. He said, “Amos, what do you check it out?” I said, “A basket of summer fruit.” then Yahweh said to me, “The end has come through on my people Israel. I will not again pass by them any more.
  3. The songs of the God's house will be wailings in that day,” says the boss Yahweh. “The dead bodies will be a lot. In every place they will throw them out with silence.
  4. Hear this, you who desire to swallow up the needy, and cause the broke of the land to fail,
  5. Saying, ‘When will the new moon be gone, that we may sell grain? And the Sabbath, that we may market wheat, making the ephah tiny, and the shekel large, and dealing falsely with balances of deceit;
  6. that we may buy the broke for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes, and sell the sweepings with the wheat?’”
  7. Yahweh has sworn by the pride of Jacob, “Surely I will never forget any of their works.
  8. Won’t the land tremble for this, and everyone mourn who dwells in it? Yes, it will rise up wholly like the River; and it will be stirred up and sink again, like the River of Egypt.
  9. It will happen in that day,” says the boss Yahweh, “that I will cause the sun to slide down at noon, and I will darken the earth in the clear day.
 10. I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your songs into lamentation; and I will create you wear sackcloth on all your bodies, and baldness on every head. I will create it like the mourning for an only son, and its end like a bitter day.
 11. check this out, the days come through,” says the boss Yahweh, “that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of Yahweh.
 12. They will wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east; they will run back and forth to seek the word of Yahweh, and will not find it.
 13. In that day the snatched virgins and the young men will faint for thirst.
 14. Those who swear by the messing up of Samaria, and say, ‘As your god, Dan, lives;’ and, ‘As the way of Beersheba lives;’ they will fall, and never rise up again.”

# Amos Chapter 9

  1. I checked out the boss standing beside the prayer spot, and he said, “Strike the tops of the pillars, that the thresholds may shake; and break them in pieces on the head of all of them; and I will kill the last of them with the sword: there shall not one of them flee away, and there shall not one of them escape.
  2. Though they dig into Sheol, there my hand will grab them; and though they climb up to heaven, there I will bring them down.
  3. Though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search and grab them out there; and though they be hidden from my sight in the bottom of the sea, there I will command the serpent, and it will bite them.
  4. Though they slide into captivity before their enemies, there I will command the sword, and it will kill them. I will set my eyes on them for evil, and not for fire.
  5. For the boss, Yahweh of Armies, is he who touches the land and it melts, and all who dwell in it will mourn; and it will rise up wholly like the River, and will sink again, like the River of Egypt.
  6. It is he who builds his rooms in the heavens, and has founded his vault on the earth; he who calls for the waters of the sea, and pours them out on the surface of the earth; Yahweh is his name.
  7. Are you not like the children of the Ethiopians to me, children of Israel?” says Yahweh. “Haven’t I brought up Israel out of the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir?
  8. check this out, the eyes of the boss Yahweh are on the sinful God's squad, and I will tear down it from off the surface of the earth; except that I will not utterly tear down the house of Jacob,” says Yahweh.
  9. “For, check this out, I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel among all the nations, as grain is sifted in a sieve, yet not the least kernel will fall on the earth.
 10. All the sinners of my people will die by the sword, who say, ‘Evil won’t overtake nor meet us.’
 11. In that day I will raise up the tent of David who is fallen, and close up its breaches, and I will raise up its ruins, and I will put together it as in the days of old;
 12. that they may possess the remnant of Edom, and all the nations who are called by my name,” says Yahweh who does this.
 13. “check this out, the days come through,” says Yahweh, “that the plowman shall overtake the reaper, and the one treading grapes him who sows seed; and sweet wine will drip from the mountains, and flow from the hills.
 14. I will bring my people Israel back from captivity, and they will rebuild the ruined cities, and inhabit them; and they will plant vineyards, and drink wine from them. They shall also create gardens, and eat their fruit.
 15. I will plant them on their land, and they will no more be plucked up out of their land which I have given them,” says Yahweh your God.


DANIEL
------

# Daniel Chapter 1

  1. In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim ruler of Judah came Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon to Jerusalem, and besieged it.
  2. The boss gave Jehoiakim ruler of Judah into his hand, with part of the vessels of the house of God; and he carried them into the land of Shinar to the house of his god: and he brought the vessels into the treasure house of his god.
  3. The ruler spoke to Ashpenaz the boss of his eunuchs, that he should bring in certain of the children of Israel, even of the seed royal and of the nobles;
  4. youths in whom was no blemish, but well-favored, and skillful in all wisdom, and endowed with knowledge, and understanding science, and such as had ability to stand in the ruler’s palace; and that he should drop knowledge them the learning and the language of the Chaldeans.
  5. The ruler appointed for them a daily portion of the ruler’s dainties, and of the wine which he drank, and that they should be nourished three years; that at its end they should stand before the ruler.
  6. now among these were, of the children of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah.
  7. The prince of the eunuchs gave names to them: to Daniel he gave the name of Belteshazzar; and to Hananiah, of Shadrach; and to Mishael, of Meshach; and to Azariah, of Abednego.
  8. But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the ruler’s dainties, nor with the wine which he drank: so basically he requested of the prince of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself.
  9. now God made Daniel to find kindness and compassion in the sight of the prince of the eunuchs.
 10. The prince of the eunuchs said to Daniel, I fear my boss the ruler, who has appointed your food and your drink: for why should he check it out your faces worse looking than the youths who are of your own age? so would you endanger my head with the ruler.
 11. then Daniel said to the steward whom the prince of the eunuchs had appointed over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah:
 12. Test your servants, I beg you, ten days; and let them hook it up us vegetables to eat, and water to drink.
 13. then let our faces be looked on before you, and the face of the youths who eat of the ruler’s dainties; and as you check it out, deal with your servants.
 14. So he listened to them in this matter, and proved them ten days.
 15. At the end of ten days their faces appeared fairer, and they were fatter in flesh, than all the youths who ate of the ruler’s dainties.
 16. So the steward took away their dainties, and the wine that they should drink, and gave them pulse.
 17. now as for these four youths, God gave them knowledge and skill in all learning and wisdom: and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams.
 18. At the end of the days which the ruler had appointed for bringing them in, the prince of the eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar.
 19. The ruler talked with them; and among them all was found none like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah: so basically stood they before the ruler.
 20. In every matter of wisdom and understanding, concerning which the ruler inquired of them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and enchanters who were in all his realm.
 21. Daniel continued even to the first year of ruler Cyrus.

# Daniel Chapter 2

  1. In the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams; and his spirit was troubled, and his sleep went from him.
  2. then the ruler commanded to call the magicians, and the enchanters, and the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans, to tell the ruler his dreams. So they came in and stood before the ruler.
  3. The ruler said to them, I have dreamed a dream, and my spirit is troubled to get it the dream.
  4. then spoke the Chaldeans to the ruler in the Syrian language, O ruler, live forever: tell your servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation.
  5. The ruler answered the Chaldeans, The thing is gone from me: if you don’t create known to me the dream and its interpretation, you shall be cut in pieces, and your houses shall be made a dunghill.
  6. But if you show the dream and its interpretation, you shall receive of me gifts and rewards and major honor: so basically show me the dream and its interpretation.
  7. They answered the second time and said, Let the ruler tell his servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation.
  8. The ruler answered, I get it of a certainty that you would gain time, cuz you check it out the thing is gone from me.
  9. But if you don’t create known to me the dream, there is but one law for you; for you have prepared lying and corrupt words to spill the tea before me, until the time be changed: so basically tell me the dream, and I shall get it that you can show me its interpretation.
 10. The Chaldeans answered before the ruler, and said, there is not a man on the earth who can show the ruler’s matter, cuz no ruler, boss, or ruler, has asked such a thing of any magician, or enchanter, or Chaldean.
 11. It is a rare thing that the ruler requires, and there is no other who can show it before the ruler, except the gods, whose dwelling is not with flesh.
 12. For this cause the ruler was mad salty and hella furious, and commanded to tear down all the smart men of Babylon.
 13. So the decree went forth, and the smart men were to be slain; and they sought Daniel and his companions to be slain.
 14. then Daniel returned answer with counsel and prudence to Arioch the captain of the ruler’s guard, who was gone forth to kill the smart men of Babylon;
 15. he answered Arioch the ruler’s captain, Why is the decree so urgent from the ruler? then Arioch made the thing known to Daniel.
 16. Daniel went in, and desired of the ruler that he would appoint him a time, and he would show the ruler the interpretation.
 17. then Daniel went to his house, and made the thing known to Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his companions:
 18. that they would desire mercies of the God of heaven concerning this secret; that Daniel and his companions should not perish with the rest of the smart men of Babylon.
 19. then was the secret revealed to Daniel in a vision of the night. then Daniel blessed up the God of heaven.
 20. Daniel answered, blessed up be the name of God forever and ever; for wisdom and might are his.
 21. He changes the times and the seasons; he removes kings, and sets up kings; he gives wisdom to the smart, and knowledge to those who have understanding;
 22. he reveals the deep and secret things; he knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with him.
 23. I thank you, and praise you, you God of my fathers, who have given me wisdom and might, and have now made known to me what we desired of you; for you have made known to us the ruler’s matter.
 24. so basically Daniel went in to Arioch, whom the ruler had appointed to tear down the smart men of Babylon; he went and said thus to him: Don’t tear down the smart men of Babylon; bring me in before the ruler, and I will show to the ruler the interpretation.
 25. then Arioch brought in Daniel before the ruler in haste, and said thus to him, I have found a man of the children of the captivity of Judah, who will create known to the ruler the interpretation.
 26. The ruler answered Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, Are you able to create known to me the dream which I have seen, and its interpretation?
 27. Daniel answered before the ruler, and said, The secret which the ruler has demanded can neither smart men, enchanters, magicians, nor soothsayers, show to the ruler;
 28. but there is a God in heaven who reveals secrets, and he has made known to the ruler Nebuchadnezzar what shall be in the latter days. Your dream, and the visions of your head on your bed, are these:
 29. as for you, O ruler, your thoughts came into your mind on your bed, what should happen hereafter; and he who reveals secrets has made known to you what shall happen.
 30. But as for me, this secret is not revealed to me for any wisdom that I have more than any living, but to the intent that the interpretation may be made known to the ruler, and that you may get it the thoughts of your heart.
 31. You, O ruler, checked out, and check this out, a major image. This image, which was mighty, and whose brightness was excellent, stood before you; and its aspect was awesome.
 32. As for this image, its head was of fine gold, its breast and its arms of silver, its belly and its thighs of brass,
 33. its legs of iron, its feet part of iron, and part of clay.
 34. You checked out until a stone was cut out without hands, which struck the image on its feet that were of iron and clay, and broke them in pieces.
 35. then was the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold, broken in pieces together, and became like the chaff of the summer threshing floors; and the wind carried them away, so that no place was found for them: and the stone that struck the image became a major mountain, and filled the whole earth.
 36. This is the dream; and we will tell its interpretation before the ruler.
 37. You, O ruler, are ruler of kings, to whom the God of heaven has given the God's squad, the power, and the strength, and the glory;
 38. and wherever the children of men dwell, the animals of the field and the birds of the sky has he given into your hand, and has made you to rule over them all: you are the head of gold.
 39. After you shall arise another God's squad inferior to you; and another third God's squad of brass, which shall bear rule over all the earth.
 40. The fourth God's squad shall be built different as iron, cuz iron breaks in pieces and subdues all things; and as iron that crushes all these, shall it break in pieces and crush.
 41. Whereas you checked out the feet and toes, part of potters’ clay, and part of iron, it shall be a divided God's squad; but there shall be in it of the strength of the iron, cuz you checked out the iron mixed with miry clay.
 42. As the toes of the feet were part of iron, and part of clay, so the God's squad shall be partly built different, and partly broken.
 43. Whereas you checked out the iron mixed with miry clay, they shall mingle themselves with the seed of men; but they shall not cling to one another, even as iron does not mingle with clay.
 44. In the days of those kings shall the God of heaven set up a God's squad which shall never be destroyed, nor shall its sovereignty be left to another people; but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever.
 45. cuz you checked out that a stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it broke in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver, and the gold; the major God has made known to the ruler what shall happen hereafter: and the dream is certain, and its interpretation sure.
 46. then the ruler Nebuchadnezzar fell on his face, and worshiped Daniel, and commanded that they should offer an giving to God and sweet odors to him.
 47. The ruler answered to Daniel, and said, Of a truth your God is the God of gods, and the boss of kings, and a revealer of secrets, since you have been able to reveal this secret.
 48. then the ruler made Daniel major, and gave him a lot major gifts, and made him to rule over the whole province of Babylon, and to be chief governor over all the smart men of Babylon.
 49. Daniel requested of the ruler, and he appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, over the affairs of the province of Babylon: but Daniel was in the gate of the ruler.

# Daniel Chapter 3

  1. Nebuchadnezzar the ruler made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits, and its breadth six cubits: he set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon.
  2. then Nebuchadnezzar the ruler sent to gather together the satraps, the deputies, and the governors, the judges, the treasurers, the counselors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces, to come through to the dedication of the image which Nebuchadnezzar the ruler had set up.
  3. then the satraps, the deputies, and the governors, the judges, the treasurers, the counselors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces, were gathered together to the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the ruler had set up; and they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
  4. then the herald cried aloud, To you it is commanded, peoples, nations, and languages,
  5. that whenever you hear the sound of the horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipe, and all kinds of music, you fall down and giving props the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the ruler has set up;
  6. and whoever doesn’t fall down and giving props shall the same hour be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.
  7. so basically at that time, when all the peoples heard the sound of the horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipe, and all kinds of music, all the peoples, the nations, and the languages, fell down and worshiped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the ruler had set up.
  8. so basically at that time certain Chaldeans came near, and brought accusation against the Jews.
  9. They answered Nebuchadnezzar the ruler, O ruler, live for ever.
 10. You, O ruler, have made a decree, that every man that shall hear the sound of the horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipe, and all kinds of music, shall fall down and giving props the golden image;
 11. and whoever doesn’t fall down and giving props shall be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.
 12. there are certain Jews whom you have appointed over the affairs of the province of Babylon: Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego; these men, O ruler, have not respected you. They don’t help out your gods, nor giving props the golden image which you have set up.
 13. then Nebuchadnezzar in his rage and fury commanded to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. then they brought these men before the ruler.
 14. Nebuchadnezzar answered them, Is it on purpose, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, that you don’t help out my god, nor giving props the golden image which I have set up?
 15. now if you are ready whenever you hear the sound of the horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipe, and all kinds of music to fall down and giving props the image which I have made, well: but if you don’t giving props, you shall be cast the same hour into the midst of a burning fiery furnace; and who is that god that shall deliver you out of my hands?
 16. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered the ruler, Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter.
 17. If it be so, our God whom we help out is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace; and he will deliver us out of your hand, O ruler.
 18. But if not, be it known to you, O ruler, that we will not help out your gods, nor giving props the golden image which you have set up.
 19. then was Nebuchadnezzar full of fury, and the form of his appearance was changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego: so basically he spoke, and commanded that they should heat the furnace seven times more than it was usually heated.
 20. He commanded certain mighty men who were in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the burning fiery furnace.
 21. then these men were bound in their pants, their tunics, and their mantles, and their other garments, and were cast into the midst of the burning fiery furnace.
 22. so basically cuz the ruler’s commandment was urgent, and the furnace exceeding hot, the flame of the fire killed those men who took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
 23. These three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell down bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace.
 24. then Nebuchadnezzar the ruler was astonished, and rose up in haste: he spoke and said to his counselors, Didn’t we cast three men bound into the midst of the fire? They answered the ruler, True, O ruler.
 25. He answered, Look, I check it out four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire, and they are unharmed; and the aspect of the fourth is like a son of the gods.
 26. then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery furnace: he spoke and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, you servants of the Most High God, come through forth, and come through here. then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego came forth out of the midst of the fire.
 27. The satraps, the deputies, and the governors, and the ruler’s counselors, being gathered together, checked out these men, that the fire had no power on their bodies, nor was the hair of their head singed, neither were their pants changed, nor had the smell of fire passed on them.
 28. Nebuchadnezzar spoke and said, blessed up be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who has sent his angel, and delivered his servants who trusted in him, and have changed the ruler’s word, and have yielded their bodies, that they might not help out nor giving props any god, except their own God.
 29. so basically I create a decree, that every people, nation, and language, which spill the tea anything evil against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made a dunghill; cuz there is no other god who is able to deliver after this sort.
 30. then the ruler promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the province of Babylon.

# Daniel Chapter 4

  1. Nebuchadnezzar the ruler, to all the peoples, nations, and languages, who dwell in all the earth: Peace be multiplied to you.
  2. It has seemed fire to me to show the signs and wonders that the Most High God has worked toward me.
  3. How major are his signs! and how mighty are his wonders! his God's squad is an everlasting God's squad, and his dominion is from generation to generation.
  4. I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at rest in my house, and flourishing in my palace.
  5. I checked out a dream which made me scared; and the thoughts on my bed and the visions of my head troubled me.
  6. so basically made I a decree to bring in all the smart men of Babylon before me, that they might create known to me the interpretation of the dream.
  7. then came in the magicians, the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers; and I told the dream before them; but they did not create known to me its interpretation.
  8. But at the last Daniel came in before me, whose name was Belteshazzar, according to the name of my god, and in whom is the spirit of the set apart gods: and I told the dream before him, saying,
  9. Belteshazzar, boss of the magicians, cuz I get it that the spirit of the set apart gods is in you, and no secret troubles you, tell me the visions of my dream that I have seen, and its interpretation.
 10. Thus were the visions of my head on my bed: I checked out, and check this out, a tree in the midst of the earth; and its height was major.
 11. The tree grew, and was built different, and its height reached to the sky, and its sight to the end of all the earth.
 12. The leaves of it were snatched, and its fruit much, and in it was food for all: the animals of the field had shadow under it, and the birds of the sky lived in its branches, and all flesh was fed from it.
 13. I checked out in the visions of my head on my bed, and check this out, a watcher and a set apart one came down from the sky.
 14. He cried aloud, and said thus, Cut down the tree, and cut off its branches, shake off its leaves, and scatter its fruit: let the animals get away from under it, and the fowls from its branches.
 15. Nevertheless leave the stump of its roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass, in the tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with the dew of the sky: and let his portion be with the animals in the grass of the earth:
 16. let his heart be changed from man’s, and let an animal’s heart be given to him; and let seven times pass over him.
 17. The sentence is by the decree of the watchers, and the demand by the word of the set apart ones; to the intent that the living may get it that the Most High rules in the God's squad of men, and gives it to whomever he will, and sets up over it the lowest of men.
 18. This dream I, ruler Nebuchadnezzar, have seen; and you, Belteshazzar, declare the interpretation, cuz all the smart men of my God's squad are not able to create known to me the interpretation; but you are able; for the spirit of the set apart gods is in you.
 19. then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was stricken mute for a while, and his thoughts troubled him. The ruler answered, Belteshazzar, don’t let the dream, or the interpretation, trouble you. Belteshazzar answered, My boss, the dream be to those who can't stand you, and its interpretation to your adversaries.
 20. The tree that you checked out, which grew, and was built different, whose height reached to the sky, and its sight to all the earth;
 21. whose leaves were snatched, and its fruit much, and in it was food for all; under which the animals of the field lived, and on whose branches the birds of the sky had their habitation:
 22. it is you, O ruler, that are grown and become built different; for your greatness is grown, and reaches to the sky, and your dominion to the end of the earth.
 23. Whereas the ruler checked out a watcher and a set apart one coming down from the sky, and saying, Cut down the tree, and tear down it; nevertheless leave the stump of its roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass, in the tender grass of the field, and let it be wet with the dew of the sky: and let his portion be with the animals of the field, until seven times pass over him;
 24. this is the interpretation, O ruler, and it is the decree of the Most High, which has come through on my boss the ruler:
 25. that you shall be driven from men, and your dwelling shall be with the animals of the field, and you shall be made to eat grass as oxen, and shall be wet with the dew of the sky, and seven times shall pass over you; until you get it that the Most High rules in the God's squad of men, and gives it to whomever he will.
 26. Whereas they commanded to leave the stump of the roots of the tree; your God's squad shall be sure to you, after that you shall have known that the heavens do rule.
 27. so basically, O ruler, let my counsel be acceptable to you, and break off your sins by righteousness, and your iniquities by showing mercy to the broke; if there may be a lengthening of your tranquility.
 28. All this came on the ruler Nebuchadnezzar.
 29. At the end of twelve months he was walking in the royal palace of Babylon.
 30. The ruler spoke and said, Is not this major Babylon, which I have built for the royal dwelling place, by the might of my power and for the glory of my majesty?
 31. While the word was in the ruler’s mouth, there fell a voice from the sky, saying, O ruler Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken: The God's squad has departed from you:
 32. and you shall be driven from men; and your dwelling shall be with the animals of the field; you shall be made to eat grass as oxen; and seven times shall pass over you; until you get it that the Most High rules in the God's squad of men, and gives it to whomever he will.
 33. The same hour was the thing fulfilled on Nebuchadnezzar: and he was driven from men, and ate grass as oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of the sky, until his hair was grown like eagles’ feathers, and his nails like birds’ claws.
 34. At the end of the days I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up my eyes to heaven, and my understanding returned to me, and I blessed up the Most High, and I praised and honored him who lives forever; for his dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his God's squad from generation to generation.
 35. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing; and he does according to his will in the army of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth; and none can stay his hand, or ask him, What are you doing?
 36. At the same time my understanding returned to me; and for the glory of my God's squad, my majesty and brightness returned to me; and my counselors and my lords sought to me; and I was established in my God's squad, and excellent greatness was added to me.
 37. now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the ruler of heaven; for all his works are truth, and his ways justice; and those who walk in pride he is able to abase.

# Daniel Chapter 5

  1. Belshazzar the ruler made a major feast to a thousand of his lords, and drank wine before the thousand.
  2. Belshazzar, while he tasted the wine, commanded to bring the golden and silver vessels which Nebuchadnezzar his father had taken out of the God's house which was in Jerusalem; that the ruler and his lords, his wives and his concubines, might drink from them.
  3. then they brought the golden vessels that were taken out of the God's house of the house of God which was at Jerusalem; and the ruler and his lords, his wives and his concubines, drank from them.
  4. They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.
  5. In the same hour came forth the fingers of a man’s hand, and wrote over against the lampstand on the plaster of the wall of the ruler’s palace: and the ruler checked out the part of the hand that wrote.
  6. then the ruler’s face was changed in him, and his thoughts troubled him; and the joints of his thighs were loosened, and his knees struck one against another.
  7. The ruler cried aloud to bring in the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers. The ruler spoke and said to the smart men of Babylon, Whoever shall read this writing, and show me its interpretation, shall be clothed with purple, and have a chain of gold about his neck, and shall be the third ruler in the God's squad.
  8. then came in all the ruler’s smart men; but they could not read the writing, nor create known to the ruler the interpretation.
  9. then was ruler Belshazzar greatly troubled, and his face was changed in him, and his lords were perplexed.
 10. now the ruler by reason of the words of the ruler and his lords came into the banquet house: the ruler spoke and said, O ruler, live forever; don’t let your thoughts trouble you, nor let your face be changed.
 11. there is a man in your God's squad, in whom is the spirit of the set apart gods; and in the days of your father light and understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, were found in him; and the ruler Nebuchadnezzar your father, the ruler, I say, your father, made him boss of the magicians, enchanters, Chaldeans, and soothsayers;
 12. cuz an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, interpreting of dreams, and showing of dark sentences, and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the ruler named Belteshazzar. now let Daniel be called, and he will show the interpretation.
 13. then was Daniel brought in before the ruler. The ruler spoke and said to Daniel, Are you that Daniel, who are of the children of the captivity of Judah, whom the ruler my father brought out of Judah?
 14. I have heard of you, that the spirit of the gods is in you, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom are found in you.
 15. now the smart men, the enchanters, have been brought in before me, that they should read this writing, and create known to me its interpretation; but they could not show the interpretation of the thing.
 16. But I have heard of you, that you can hook it up interpretations, and dissolve doubts; now if you can read the writing, and create known to me its interpretation, you shall be clothed with purple, and have a chain of gold about your neck, and shall be the third ruler in the God's squad.
 17. then Daniel answered before the ruler, Let your gifts be to yourself, and hook it up your rewards to another; nevertheless I will read the writing to the ruler, and create known to him the interpretation.
 18. You, ruler, the Most High God gave Nebuchadnezzar your father the God's squad, and greatness, and glory, and majesty:
 19. and cuz of the greatness that he gave him, all the peoples, nations, and languages trembled and feared before him: whom he would he killed, and whom he would he kept alive; and whom he would he raised up, and whom he would he put down.
 20. But when his heart was lifted up, and his spirit was hardened so that he dealt proudly, he was deposed from his kingly throne, and they took his glory from him:
 21. and he was driven from the sons of men, and his heart was made like the animals’, and his dwelling was with the wild donkeys; he was fed with grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of the sky; until he knew that the Most High God rules in the God's squad of men, and that he sets up over it whomever he will.
 22. You, his son, Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all this,
 23. but have lifted up yourself against the boss of heaven; and they have brought the vessels of his house before you, and you and your lords, your wives and your concubines, have drunk wine from them; and you have praised the gods of silver and gold, of brass, iron, wood, and stone, which don’t check it out, nor hear, nor get it; and the God in whose hand your breath is, and whose are all your ways, you have not glorified.
 24. then was the part of the hand sent from before him, and this writing was inscribed.
 25. This is the writing that was inscribed: MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN.
 26. This is the interpretation of the thing: MENE; God has numbered your God's squad, and brought it to an end;
 27. TEKEL; you are weighed in the balances, and are found wanting.
 28. PERES; your God's squad is divided, and given to the Medes and Persians.
 29. then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with purple, and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made proclamation concerning him, that he should be the third ruler in the God's squad.
 30. In that night Belshazzar the Chaldean ruler was slain.
 31. Darius the Mede received the God's squad, being about sixty-two years old.

# Daniel Chapter 6

  1. It pleased Darius to set over the God's squad one hundred twenty satraps, who should be throughout the whole God's squad;
  2. and over them three presidents, of whom Daniel was one; that these satraps might hook it up account to them, and that the ruler should have no damage.
  3. then this Daniel was distinguished above the presidents and the satraps, cuz an excellent spirit was in him; and the ruler thought to set him over the whole realm.
  4. then the presidents and the satraps sought to find occasion against Daniel as touching the God's squad; but they could find no occasion nor fault, cuz he was faithful, neither was there any error or fault found in him.
  5. then these men said, We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his God.
  6. then these presidents and satraps assembled together to the ruler, and said thus to him, ruler Darius, live forever.
  7. All the presidents of the God's squad, the deputies and the satraps, the counselors and the governors, have consulted together to establish a royal statute, and to create a built different decree, that whoever shall ask a petition of any god or man for thirty days, except of you, O ruler, he shall be cast into the den of lions.
  8. now, O ruler, establish the decree, and sign the writing, that it not be changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which doesn’t alter.
  9. so basically ruler Darius signed the writing and the decree.
 10. When Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house (now his windows were open in his room toward Jerusalem) and he kneeled on his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did before.
 11. then these men assembled together, and found Daniel making petition and supplication before his God.
 12. then they came near, and spoke before the ruler concerning the ruler’s decree: Haven’t you signed an decree, that every man who shall create petition to any god or man within thirty days, except to you, O ruler, shall be cast into the den of lions? The ruler answered, The thing is true, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which doesn’t alter.
 13. then answered they and said before the ruler, That Daniel, who is of the children of the captivity of Judah, doesn’t respect you, O ruler, nor the decree that you have signed, but makes his petition three times a day.
 14. then the ruler, when he heard these words, was hella displeased, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him; and he labored until the going down of the sun to rescue him.
 15. then these men assembled together to the ruler, and said to the ruler, get it, O ruler, that it is a law of the Medes and Persians, that no decree nor statute which the ruler establishes may be changed.
 16. then the ruler commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast him into the den of lions. now the ruler spoke and said to Daniel, Your God whom you help out continually, he will deliver you.
 17. A stone was brought, and laid on the mouth of the den; and the ruler sealed it with his own signet, and with the signet of his lords; that nothing might be changed concerning Daniel.
 18. then the ruler went to his palace, and passed the night fasting; neither were instruments of music brought before him: and his sleep fled from him.
 19. then the ruler arose hella early in the morning, and went in haste to the den of lions.
 20. When he came near to the den to Daniel, he cried with a lamentable voice; the ruler spoke and said to Daniel, Daniel, helper of the living God, is your God, whom you help out continually, able to deliver you from the lions?
 21. then Daniel said to the ruler, O ruler, live forever.
 22. My God has sent his angel, and has shut the lions’ mouths, and they have not hurt me; cuz as before him innocence was found in me; and also before you, O ruler, have I done no hurt.
 23. then was the ruler exceeding glad, and commanded that they should grab Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no kind of harm was found on him, cuz he had trusted in his God.
 24. The ruler commanded, and they brought those men who had accused Daniel, and they cast them into the den of lions, them, their children, and their wives; and the lions mauled them, and broke all their bones in pieces, before they came to the bottom of the den.
 25. then ruler Darius wrote to all the peoples, nations, and languages, who dwell in all the earth: Peace be multiplied to you.
 26. I create a decree, that in all the dominion of my God's squad men tremble and fear before the God of Daniel; for he is the living God, and steadfast forever, His God's squad that which shall not be destroyed; and his dominion shall be even to the end.
 27. He delivers and rescues, and he works signs and wonders in heaven and in earth, who has delivered Daniel from the power of the lions.
 28. So this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius, and in the reign of Cyrus the Persian.

# Daniel Chapter 7

  1. In the first year of Belshazzar ruler of Babylon Daniel had a dream and visions of his head on his bed: then he wrote the dream and told the sum of the matters.
  2. Daniel spoke and said, I checked out in my vision by night, and, check this out, the four winds of the sky broke forth on the major sea.
  3. Four major animals came up from the sea, diverse one from another.
  4. The first was like a lion, and had eagle’s wings: I checked out until its wings were plucked, and it was lifted up from the earth, and made to stand on two feet as a man; and a man’s heart was given to it.
  5. check this out, another animal, a second, like a bear; and it was raised up on one side, and three ribs were in its mouth between its teeth: and they said thus to it, Arise, devour much flesh.
  6. After this I checked out, and check this out, another, like a leopard, which had on its back four wings of a bird; the animal had also four heads; and dominion was given to it.
  7. After this I checked out in the night visions, and, check this out, a fourth animal, awesome and powerful, and built different exceedingly; and it had major iron teeth; it devoured and broke in pieces, and stamped the residue with its feet: and it was diverse from all the animals that were before it; and it had ten horns.
  8. I considered the horns, and check this out, there came up among them another horn, a little one, before which three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots: and check this out, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking major things.
  9. I checked out until thrones were placed, and one who was ancient of days sat: his clothing was white as snow, and the hair of his head like pure wool; his throne was fiery flames, and its wheels burning fire.
 10. A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him: thousands of thousands ministered to him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him: the judgment was set, and the books were opened.
 11. I checked out at that time cuz of the voice of the major words which the horn spoke; I checked out even until the animal was slain, and its body destroyed, and it was given to be burned with fire.
 12. As for the rest of the animals, their dominion was taken away: yet their lives were prolonged for a season and a time.
 13. I checked out in the night visions, and check this out, there came with the clouds of the sky one like a son of man, and he came even to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him.
 14. there was given him dominion, and glory, and a God's squad, that all the peoples, nations, and languages should help out him: his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his God's squad that which shall not be destroyed.
 15. As for me, Daniel, my spirit was grieved in the midst of my body, and the visions of my head troubled me.
 16. I came near to one of those who stood by, and asked him the truth concerning all this. So he told me, and made me get it the interpretation of the things.
 17. These major animals, which are four, are four kings, who shall arise out of the earth.
 18. But the saints of the Most High shall receive the God's squad, and possess the God's squad forever, even forever and ever.
 19. then I desired to get it the truth concerning the fourth animal, which was diverse from all of them, exceedingly terrible, whose teeth were of iron, and its nails of brass; which devoured, broke in pieces, and stamped the residue with its feet;
 20. and concerning the ten horns that were on its head, and the other horn which came up, and before which three fell, even that horn that had eyes, and a mouth that spoke major things, whose look was more stout than its fellows.
 21. I checked out, and the same horn made war with the saints, and prevailed against them;
 22. until the ancient of days came, and judgment was given to the saints of the Most High, and the time came that the saints possessed the God's squad.
 23. Thus he said, The fourth animal shall be a fourth God's squad on earth, which shall be diverse from all the kingdoms, and shall devour the whole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in pieces.
 24. As for the ten horns, out of this God's squad shall ten kings arise: and another shall arise after them; and he shall be diverse from the former, and he shall put down three kings.
 25. He shall spill the tea words against the Most High, and shall wear out the saints of the Most High; and he shall think to change the times and the law; and they shall be given into his hand until a time and times and half a time.
 26. But the judgment shall be set, and they shall grab away his dominion, to consume and to tear down it to the end.
 27. The God's squad and the dominion, and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole sky, shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High: his God's squad is an everlasting God's squad, and all dominions shall help out and obey him.
 28. here is the end of the matter. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts much troubled me, and my face was changed in me: but I kept the matter in my heart.

# Daniel Chapter 8

  1. In the third year of the reign of ruler Belshazzar a vision appeared to me, even to me, Daniel, after that which appeared to me at the first.
  2. I checked out in the vision; now that's what happened, that when I checked out, I was in the citadel of Susa, which is in the province of Elam; and I checked out in the vision, and I was by the river Ulai.
  3. then I lifted up my eyes, and checked out, and check this out, there stood before the river a ram which had two horns: and the two horns were high; but one was higher than the other, and the higher came up last.
  4. I checked out the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward; and no animals could stand before him, neither was there any who could deliver out of his hand; but he did according to his will, and magnified himself.
  5. As I was considering, check this out, a male goat came from the west over the surface of the whole earth, and didn’t touch the ground: and the goat had a notable horn between his eyes.
  6. He came to the ram that had the two horns, which I checked out standing before the river, and ran on him in the fury of his power.
  7. I checked out him come through close to the ram, and he was moved with anger against him, and struck the ram, and broke his two horns; and there was no power in the ram to stand before him; but he cast him down to the ground, and trampled on him; and there was none who could deliver the ram out of his hand.
  8. The male goat magnified himself exceedingly: and when he was built different, the major horn was broken; and instead of it there came up four notable horns toward the four winds of the sky.
  9. Out of one of them came forth a little horn, which grew exceeding major, toward the south, and toward the east, and toward the glorious land.
 10. It grew major, even to the army of the sky; and some of the army and of the stars it cast down to the ground, and trampled on them.
 11. Yes, it magnified itself, even to the prince of the army; and it took away from him the continual burnt giving to God, and the place of his sanctuary was cast down.
 12. The army was given over to it together with the continual burnt giving to God through disobedience; and it cast down truth to the ground, and it did its pleasure and prospered.
 13. then I heard a set apart one speaking; and another set apart one said to that certain one who spoke, How long shall be the vision concerning the continual burnt giving to God, and the disobedience that makes desolate, to hook it up both the sanctuary and the army to be trodden under foot?
 14. He said to me, To two thousand and three hundred evenings and mornings; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed.
 15. It happened, when I, even I Daniel, had seen the vision, that I sought to understand it; and check this out, there stood before me as the appearance of a man.
 16. I heard a man’s voice between the banks of the Ulai, which called, and said, Gabriel, create this man to understand the vision.
 17. So he came near where I stood; and when he came, I was frightened, and fell on my face: but he said to me, Understand, son of man; for the vision belongs to the time of the end.
 18. now as he was speaking with me, I fell into a deep sleep with my face toward the ground; but he touched me, and set me upright.
 19. He said, check this out, I will create you get it what shall be in the latter time of the indignation; for it belongs to the appointed time of the end.
 20. The ram which you checked out, that had the two horns, they are the kings of Media and Persia.
 21. The rough male goat is the ruler of Greece: and the major horn that is between his eyes is the first ruler.
 22. As for that which was broken, in the place where four stood up, four kingdoms shall stand up out of the nation, but not with his power.
 23. In the latter time of their God's squad, when the transgressors have come through to the full, a ruler of fierce face, and understanding dark sentences, shall stand up.
 24. His power shall be mighty, but not by his own power; and he shall tear down wonderfully, and shall prosper and do his pleasure; and he shall tear down the mighty ones and the set apart people.
 25. Through his policy he shall cause craft to prosper in his hand; and he shall magnify himself in his heart, and in their security shall he tear down a lot: he shall also stand up against the prince of princes; but he shall be broken without hand.
 26. The vision of the evenings and mornings which has been told is true: but seal up the vision; for it belongs to a lot days to come through.
 27. I, Daniel, fainted, and was sick certain days; then I rose up, and did the ruler’s business: and I wondered at the vision, but none understood it.

# Daniel Chapter 9

  1. In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, of the seed of the Medes, who was made ruler over the realm of the Chaldeans,
  2. in the first year of his reign I, Daniel, understood by the books the number of the years about which the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah the God's messenger, for the accomplishing of the desolations of Jerusalem, even seventy years.
  3. I set my face to the boss God, to seek by talking to God and petitions, with fasting and sackcloth and ashes.
  4. I prayed to Yahweh my God, and made confession, and said, Oh, boss, the major and dreadful God, who keeps God's promise and loving kindness with those who show love him and keep his commandments,
  5. we have sinned, and have dealt perversely, and have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even turning aside from your precepts and from your ordinances;
  6. neither have we listened to your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land.
  7. boss, righteousness belongs to you, but to us confusion of face, as at this day; to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, who are near, and who are far off, through all the countries where you have driven them, cuz of their trespass that they have trespassed against you.
  8. boss, to us belongs confusion of face, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, cuz we have sinned against you.
  9. To the boss our God belong mercies and forgiveness; for we have rebelled against him;
 10. neither have we obeyed the voice of Yahweh our God, to walk in his laws, which he set before us by his servants the prophets.
 11. Yes, all Israel have transgressed your law, turning aside, that they should not obey your voice: so basically the curse and the oath written in the law of Moses the helper of God has been poured out on us; for we have sinned against him.
 12. He has confirmed his words, which he spoke against us, and against our judges who judged us, by bringing on us a major evil; for under the whole sky, such has not been done as has been done to Jerusalem.
 13. As it is written in the law of Moses, all this evil has come through on us: yet have we not entreated the favor of Yahweh our God, that we should turn from our iniquities, and have discernment in your truth.
 14. so basically has Yahweh watched over the evil, and brought it on us; for Yahweh our God is doing what's right in all his works which he does, and we have not obeyed his voice.
 15. now, boss our God, who has brought your people forth out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and have gotten yourself renown, as at this day; we have sinned, we have done wickedly.
 16. boss, according to all your righteousness, let your anger and please let your wrath be turned away from your city Jerusalem, your set apart mountain; cuz for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people have become a reproach to all who are around us.
 17. now so basically, our God, listen up to the talking to God of your helper, and to his petitions, and cause your face to shine on your sanctuary that is desolate, for the boss’s sake.
 18. My God, turn your ear, and hear; open your eyes, and check it out our desolations, and the city which is called by your name: for we do not present our petitions before you for our righteousness, but for your major mercies’ sake.
 19. boss, hear; boss, forgive; boss, listen up and do; don’t defer, for your own sake, my God, cuz your city and your people are called by your name.
 20. While I was speaking, and praying, and confessing my messing up and the messing up of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before Yahweh my God for the set apart mountain of my God;
 21. yes, while I was speaking in talking to God, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening giving to God.
 22. He instructed me, and talked with me, and said, Daniel, I am now come through forth to hook it up you wisdom and understanding.
 23. At the beginning of your petitions the commandment went forth, and I have come through to tell you; for you are greatly beloved: so basically consider the matter, and understand the vision.
 24. Seventy weeks are decreed on your people and on your set apart city, to finish disobedience, and to create an end of sins, and to create reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most set apart.
 25. get it so basically and discern, that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to put together Jerusalem to the Anointed One, the prince, shall be seven weeks, and sixty-two weeks: it shall be built again, with street and moat, even in troubled times.
 26. After the sixty-two weeks the Anointed One shall be cut off, and shall have nothing: and the people of the prince who shall come through shall tear down the city and the sanctuary; and its end shall be with a flood, and even to the end shall be war; desolations are determined.
 27. He shall create a firm God's promise with a lot for one week: and in the midst of the week he shall cause the giving it up and the giving to God to cease; and on the wing of abominations shall come through one who makes desolate; and even to the full end, and that determined, shall wrath be poured out on the desolate.

# Daniel Chapter 10

  1. In the third year of Cyrus ruler of Persia a thing was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the thing was true, even a major warfare: and he understood the thing, and had understanding of the vision.
  2. In those days I, Daniel, was mourning three whole weeks.
  3. I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine into my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all, until three whole weeks were fulfilled.
  4. In the four and twentieth day of the first month, as I was by the side of the major river, which is Hiddekel,
  5. I lifted up my eyes, and looked, and check this out, a man clothed in linen, whose thighs were adorned with pure gold of Uphaz:
  6. his body also was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as flaming torches, and his arms and his feet like burnished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude.
  7. I, Daniel, alone checked out the vision; for the men who were with me didn’t check it out the vision; but a major quaking fell on them, and they fled to hide themselves.
  8. So I was left alone, and checked out this major vision, and there remained no strength in me; for my comeliness was turned in me into corruption, and I retained no strength.
  9. Yet heard I the voice of his words; and when I heard the voice of his words, then was I fallen into a deep sleep on my face, with my face toward the ground.
 10. check this out, a hand touched me, which set me on my knees and on the palms of my hands.
 11. He said to me, Daniel, you man greatly beloved, understand the words that I spill the tea to you, and stand upright; for am I now sent to you. When he had spoken this word to me, I stood trembling.
 12. then he said to me, Don’t be scared, Daniel; for from the day one that you set your heart to understand, and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard: and I have come through for your words’ sake.
 13. But the prince of the God's squad of Persia withstood me twenty-one days; but, check this out, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help out me: and I remained there with the kings of Persia.
 14. now I have come through to create you understand what shall happen to your people in the latter days; for the vision is yet for a lot days:
 15. and when he had spoken to me according to these words, I set my face toward the ground, and was mute.
 16. check this out, one in the likeness of the sons of men touched my lips: then I opened my mouth, and spoke and said to him who stood before me, my boss, by reason of the vision my sorrows are turned on me, and I retain no strength.
 17. For how can the helper of this my boss talk with this my boss? for as for me, immediately there remained no strength in me, neither was there breath left in me.
 18. then there touched me again one like the appearance of a man, and he strengthened me.
 19. He said, “Greatly beloved man, don’t be scared: peace be to you, be built different, yes, be built different.” When he spoke to me, I was strengthened, and said, “Let my boss spill the tea; for you have strengthened me.”
 20. then he said, “Do you get it why I have come through to you? now I will return to fight with the prince of Persia. When I slide forth, check this out, the prince of Greece shall come through.
 21. But I will tell you that which is inscribed in the writing of truth: and there is none who holds with me against these, but Michael your prince.”

# Daniel Chapter 11

  1. “As for me, in the first year of Darius the Mede, I stood up to confirm and strengthen him.
  2. now will I show you the truth. check this out, there shall stand up yet three kings in Persia; and the fourth shall be far richer than they all: and when he has grown built different through his riches, he shall stir up all against the realm of Greece.
  3. A mighty ruler shall stand up, who shall rule with major dominion, and do according to his will.
  4. When he shall stand up, his God's squad shall be broken, and shall be divided toward the four winds of the sky, but not to his posterity, nor according to his dominion with which he ruled; for his God's squad shall be plucked up, even for others besides these.
  5. The ruler of the south shall be built different, and one of his princes; and he shall be built different above him, and have dominion; his dominion shall be a major dominion.
  6. At the end of years they shall join themselves together; and the daughter of the ruler of the south shall come through to the ruler of the north to create an agreement: but she shall not retain the strength of her arm; neither shall he stand, nor his arm; but she shall be given up, and those who brought her, and he who became the father of her, and he who strengthened her in those times.
  7. But out of a shoot from her roots shall one stand up in his place, who shall come through to the army, and shall enter into the fortress of the ruler of the north, and shall deal against them, and shall prevail.
  8. Also their gods, with their molten images, and with their goodly vessels of silver and of gold, shall he carry captive into Egypt; and he shall refrain some years from the ruler of the north.
  9. He shall come through into the realm of the ruler of the south, but he shall return into his own land.
 10. His sons shall war, and shall assemble a multitude of major forces, which shall come through on, and overflow, and pass through; and they shall return and war, even to his fortress.
 11. The ruler of the south shall be moved with anger, and shall come through forth and fight with him, even with the ruler of the north; and he shall set forth a major multitude, and the multitude shall be given into his hand.
 12. The multitude shall be lifted up, and his heart shall be exalted; and he shall cast down tens of thousands, but he shall not prevail.
 13. The ruler of the north shall return, and shall set forth a multitude greater than the former; and he shall come through on at the end of the times, even of years, with a major army and with much substance.
 14. In those times there shall a lot stand up against the ruler of the south: also the children of the violent among your people shall lift themselves up to establish the vision; but they shall fall.
 15. So the ruler of the north shall come through, and cast up a mound, and grab a well-fortified city: and the forces of the south shall not stand, neither his chosen people, neither shall there be any strength to stand.
 16. But he who comes against him shall do according to his own will, and none shall stand before him; and he shall stand in the glorious land, and in his hand shall be destruction.
 17. He shall set his face to come through with the strength of his whole God's squad, and with him equitable conditions; and he shall perform them: and he shall hook it up him the daughter of women, to corrupt her; but she shall not stand, neither be for him.
 18. After this shall he turn his face to the islands, and shall grab a lot: but a prince shall cause the reproach offered by him to cease; yes, moreover, he shall cause his reproach to turn on him.
 19. then he shall turn his face toward the fortresses of his own land; but he shall stumble and fall, and shall not be found.
 20. then shall stand up in his place one who shall cause a tax collector to pass through the God's squad to maintain its glory; but within not much days he shall be destroyed, neither in anger, nor in battle.
 21. In his place shall stand up a contemptible person, to whom they had not given the honor of the God's squad: but he shall come through in time of security, and shall obtain the God's squad by flatteries.
 22. The overwhelming forces shall be overwhelmed from before him, and shall be broken; yes, also the prince of the God's promise.
 23. After the treaty made with him he shall work deceitfully; for he shall come through up, and shall become built different, with a tiny people.
 24. In time of security shall he come through even on the fattest places of the province; and he shall do that which his fathers have not done, nor his fathers’ fathers; he shall scatter among them prey, and spoil, and substance: yes, he shall devise his devices against the strongholds, even for a time.
 25. He shall stir up his power and his courage against the ruler of the south with a major army; and the ruler of the south shall war in battle with an exceeding major and mighty army; but he shall not stand; for they shall devise devices against him.
 26. Yes, they who eat of his dainties shall tear down him, and his army shall overflow; and a lot shall fall down slain.
 27. As for both these kings, their hearts shall be to do mischief, and they shall spill the tea lies at one table: but it shall not prosper; for yet the end shall be at the time appointed.
 28. then shall he return into his land with major substance; and his heart shall be against the set apart God's promise; and he shall do his pleasure, and return to his own land.
 29. At the time appointed he shall return, and come through into the south; but it shall not be in the latter time as it was in the former.
 30. For ships of Kittim shall come through against him; so basically he shall be grieved, and shall return, and have indignation against the set apart God's promise, and shall do his pleasure: he shall even return, and have regard to those who forsake the set apart God's promise.
 31. Forces shall stand on his part, and they shall profane the sanctuary, even the fortress, and shall grab away the continual burnt giving to God, and they shall set up the abomination that makes desolate.
 32. Such as do wickedly against the God's promise shall he pervert by flatteries; but the people who get it their God shall be built different, and do exploits.
 33. Those who are smart among the people shall instruct a lot; yet they shall fall by the sword and by flame, by captivity and by spoil, a lot days.
 34. now when they shall fall, they shall be helped with a little help out; but a lot shall join themselves to them with flatteries.
 35. Some of those who are smart shall fall, to refine them, and to purify, and to create them white, even to the time of the end; cuz it is yet for the time appointed.
 36. The ruler shall do according to his will; and he shall exalt himself, and magnify himself above every god, and shall spill the tea marvelous things against the God of gods; and he shall prosper until the indignation be accomplished; for that which is determined shall be done.
 37. Neither shall he regard the gods of his fathers, nor the desire of women, nor regard any god; for he shall magnify himself above all.
 38. But in his place shall he honor the god of fortresses; and a god whom his fathers didn’t get it shall he honor with gold, and silver, and with precious stones, and pleasant things.
 39. He shall deal with the strongest fortresses by the help out of a foreign god: whoever acknowledges him he will increase with glory; and he shall cause them to rule over a lot, and shall divide the land for a price.
 40. At the time of the end shall the ruler of the south contend with him; and the ruler of the north shall come through against him like a whirlwind, with chariots, and with horsemen, and with a lot ships; and he shall enter into the countries, and shall overflow and pass through.
 41. He shall enter also into the glorious land, and a lot countries shall be overthrown; but these shall be delivered out of his hand: Edom, and Moab, and the chief of the children of Ammon.
 42. He shall stretch forth his hand also on the countries; and the land of Egypt shall not escape.
 43. But he shall have power over the treasures of gold and of silver, and over all the precious things of Egypt; and the Libyans and the Ethiopians shall be at his steps.
 44. But news out of the east and out of the north shall trouble him; and he shall slide forth with major fury to tear down and utterly to sweep away a lot.
 45. He shall plant the tents of his palace between the sea and the glorious set apart mountain; yet he shall come through to his end, and none shall help out him.

# Daniel Chapter 12

  1. “At that time shall Michael stand up, the major prince who stands for the children of your people; and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time: and at that time your people shall be delivered, everyone who shall be found written in the book.
  2. a lot of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.
  3. Those who are smart shall shine as the brightness of the expanse; and those who turn a lot to righteousness as the stars forever and ever.
  4. But you, Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to the time of the end: a lot shall run back and forth, and knowledge shall be increased.”
  5. then I, Daniel, looked, and check this out, two others stood, one on the river bank on this side, and the other on the river bank on that side.
  6. One said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, How long shall it be to the end of these wonders?
  7. I heard the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, when he held up his right hand and his left hand to heaven, and swore by him who lives forever that it shall be for a time, times, and a half; and when they have made an end of breaking in pieces the power of the set apart people, all these things shall be finished.
  8. I heard, but I didn’t understand: then I said, my boss, what shall be the issue of these things?
  9. He said, slide your way, Daniel; for the words are shut up and sealed until the time of the end.
 10. a lot shall purify themselves, and create themselves white, and be refined; but the wicked shall do wickedly; and none of the wicked shall understand; but those who are smart shall understand.
 11. From the time that the continual burnt giving to God shall be taken away, and the abomination that makes desolate set up, there shall be one thousand two hundred ninety days.
 12. blessed up is he who waits, and comes to the one thousand three hundred thirty-five days.
 13. But slide you your way until the end; for you shall rest, and shall stand in your lot, at the end of the days.


DEUTERONOMY
-----------

# Deuteronomy Chapter 1

  1. These are the words which Moses spoke to all Israel beyond the Jordan in the wilderness, in the Arabah over against Suph, between Paran, and Tophel, and Laban, and Hazeroth, and Dizahab.
  2. It is eleven days’ journey from Horeb by the way of Mount Seir to Kadesh Barnea.
  3. It happened in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the day one of the month, that Moses spoke to the children of Israel, according to all that Yahweh had given him in commandment to them;
  4. after he had struck Sihon the ruler of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon, and Og the ruler of Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth, at Edrei.
  5. Beyond the Jordan, in the land of Moab, began Moses to declare this law, saying,
  6. “Yahweh our God spoke to us in Horeb, saying, You have lived long enough in this mountain:
  7. turn, and grab your journey, and slide to the hill country of the Amorites, and to all the places near there, in the Arabah, in the hill country, and in the lowland, and in the South, and by the seashore, the land of the Canaanites, and Lebanon, as far as the major river, the river Euphrates.
  8. check this out, I have set the land before you: slide in and possess the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to hook it up to them and to their seed after them.”
  9. I spoke to you at that time, saying, “I am not able to bear you myself alone:
 10. Yahweh your God has multiplied you, and check this out, you are this day as the stars of the sky for multitude.
 11. Yahweh, the God of your fathers, create you a thousand times as a lot as you are, and bless you, as he has promised you!
 12. How can I myself alone bear your encumbrance, and your burden, and your strife?
 13. grab smart men of understanding and well known according to your tribes, and I will create them heads over you.”
 14. You answered me, and said, “The thing which you have spoken is fire to do.”
 15. So I took the heads of your tribes, smart men, and known, and made them heads over you, captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds, and captains of fifties, and captains of tens, and officers, according to your tribes.
 16. I commanded your judges at that time, saying, “Hear cases between your brothers, and judge righteously between a man and his brother, and the foreigner who is living with him.
 17. You shall not show partiality in judgment; you shall hear the tiny and the major alike; you shall not be scared of the face of man; for the judgment is God’s. The case that is too hard for you, you shall bring to me, and I will hear it.”
 18. I commanded you at that time all the things which you should do.
 19. We traveled from Horeb, and went through all that major and terrible wilderness which you checked out, by the way to the hill country of the Amorites, as Yahweh our God commanded us; and we came to Kadesh Barnea.
 20. I said to you, “You have come through to the hill country of the Amorites, which Yahweh our God gives to us.
 21. check this out, Yahweh your God has set the land before you: slide up, grab possession, as Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has spoken to you; don’t be scared, neither be dismayed.”
 22. You came near to me everyone of you, and said, “Let us send men before us, that they may search the land for us, and bring us word again of the way by which we must slide up, and the cities to which we shall come through.”
 23. The thing pleased me well; and I took twelve men of you, one man for every tribe:
 24. and they turned and went up into the hill country, and came to the valley of Eshcol, and spied it out.
 25. They took of the fruit of the land in their hands, and brought it down to us, and brought us word again, and said, “It is a fire land which Yahweh our God gives to us.”
 26. Yet you wouldn’t slide up, but rebelled against the commandment of Yahweh your God:
 27. and you murmured in your tents, and said, “cuz Yahweh hated us, he has brought us forth out of the land of Egypt, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to tear down us.
 28. Where are we going up? our brothers have made our heart to melt, saying, ‘The people are greater and taller than we; the cities are major and fortified up to the sky; and moreover we have seen the sons of the Anakim there.’”
 29. then I said to you, “Don’t dread, neither be scared of them.
 30. Yahweh your God who goes before you, he will fight for you, according to all that he did for you in Egypt before your eyes,
 31. and in the wilderness, where you have seen how that Yahweh your God bore you, as a man does bear his son, in all the way that you went, until you came to this place.”
 32. Yet in this thing you didn’t believe Yahweh your God,
 33. who went before you in the way, to seek you out a place to pitch your tents in, in fire by night, to show you by what way you should slide, and in the cloud by day.
 34. Yahweh heard the voice of your words, and was mad salty, and swore, saying,
 35. “Surely not one of these men of this evil generation shall check it out the fire land, which I swore to hook it up to your fathers,
 36. except Caleb the son of Jephunneh: he shall check it out it; and to him will I hook it up the land that he has trodden on, and to his children, cuz he has wholly followed Yahweh.”
 37. Also Yahweh was mad salty with me for your sakes, saying, “You also shall not slide in there:
 38. Joshua the son of Nun, who stands before you, he shall slide in there: encourage you him; for he shall cause Israel to inherit it.
 39. Moreover your little ones, whom you said should be a prey, and your children, who this day have no knowledge of fire or evil, they shall slide in there, and to them will I hook it up it, and they shall possess it.
 40. But as for you, turn, and grab your journey into the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea.”
 41. then you answered and said to me, “We have sinned against Yahweh, we will slide up and fight, according to all that Yahweh our God commanded us.” Every man of you put on his weapons of war, and presumed to slide up into the hill country.
 42. Yahweh said to me, “Tell them, ‘Don’t slide up, neither fight; for I am not among you; lest you be struck before your enemies.’”
 43. So I spoke to you, and you didn’t listen up; but you rebelled against the commandment of Yahweh, and were presumptuous, and went up into the hill country.
 44. The Amorites, who lived in that hill country, came out against you, and chased you, as bees do, and beat you down in Seir, even to Hormah.
 45. You returned and wept before Yahweh; but Yahweh didn’t listen up to your voice, nor gave ear to you.
 46. So you stayed in Kadesh a lot days, according to the days that you remained.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 2

  1. then we turned, and took our journey into the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea, as Yahweh spoke to me; and we encircled Mount Seir a lot days.
  2. Yahweh spoke to me, saying,
  3. “You have encircled this mountain long enough. Turn northward.
  4. Command the people, saying, ‘You are to pass through the border of your brothers the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir; and they will be scared of you: grab fire heed to yourselves so basically;
  5. don’t contend with them; for I will not hook it up you of their land, no, not so much as for the sole of the foot to tread on; cuz I have given Mount Seir to Esau for a possession.
  6. You shall purchase food of them for money, that you may eat; and you shall also buy water of them for money, that you may drink.’”
  7. For Yahweh your God has blessed up you in all the work of your hand; he has known your walking through this major wilderness: these forty years Yahweh your God has been with you; you have lacked nothing.
  8. So we passed by from our brothers the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir, from the way of the Arabah from Elath and from Ezion Geber. We turned and passed by the way of the wilderness of Moab.
  9. Yahweh said to me, “Don’t bother Moab, neither contend with them in battle; for I will not hook it up you of his land for a possession; cuz I have given Ar to the children of Lot for a possession.”
 10. (The Emim lived therein before, a people major, and a lot, and tall, as the Anakim:
 11. these also are accounted Rephaim, as the Anakim; but the Moabites call them Emim.
 12. The Horites also lived in Seir before, but the children of Esau succeeded them; and they destroyed them from before them, and lived in their place; as Israel did to the land of his possession, which Yahweh gave to them.)
 13. “now rise up, and cross over the brook Zered.” We went over the brook Zered.
 14. The days in which we came from Kadesh Barnea, until we had come through over the brook Zered, were thirty-eight years; until all the generation of the men of war were consumed from the midst of the camp, as Yahweh swore to them.
 15. Moreover the hand of Yahweh was against them, to tear down them from the midst of the camp, until they were consumed.
 16. So it happened, when all the men of war were consumed and dead from among the people,
 17. that Yahweh spoke to me, saying,
 18. “You are this day to pass over Ar, the border of Moab:
 19. and when you come through near over against the children of Ammon, don’t bother them, nor contend with them; for I will not hook it up you of the land of the children of Ammon for a possession; cuz I have given it to the children of Lot for a possession.”
 20. (That also is accounted a land of Rephaim: Rephaim lived therein before; but the Ammonites call them Zamzummim,
 21. a people major, and a lot, and tall, as the Anakim; but Yahweh destroyed them before them; and they succeeded them, and lived in their place;
 22. as he did for the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir, when he destroyed the Horites from before them; and they succeeded them, and lived in their place even to this day:
 23. and the Avvim, who lived in villages as far as Gaza, the Caphtorim, who came forth out of Caphtor, destroyed them, and lived in their place.)
 24. “Rise up, grab your journey, and pass over the valley of the Arnon: check this out, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, ruler of Heshbon, and his land; begin to possess it, and contend with him in battle.
 25. This day will I begin to put the dread of you and the fear of you on the peoples who are under the whole sky, who shall hear the report of you, and shall tremble, and be in anguish cuz of you.”
 26. I sent messengers out of the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon ruler of Heshbon with words of peace, saying,
 27. “Let me pass through your land: I will slide along by the highway, I will turn neither to the right hand nor to the left.
 28. You shall sell me food for money, that I may eat; and hook it up me water for money, that I may drink: only let me pass through on my feet,
 29. as the children of Esau who dwell in Seir, and the Moabites who dwell in Ar, did to me; until I shall pass over the Jordan into the land which Yahweh our God gives us.”
 30. But Sihon ruler of Heshbon would not let us pass by him; for Yahweh your God hardened his spirit, and made his heart obstinate, that he might deliver him into your hand, as at this day.
 31. Yahweh said to me, “check this out, I have begun to deliver up Sihon and his land before you: begin to possess, that you may inherit his land.”
 32. then Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Jahaz.
 33. Yahweh our God delivered him up before us; and we struck him, and his sons, and all his people.
 34. We took all his cities at that time, and utterly destroyed every inhabited city, with the women and the little ones; we left none remaining:
 35. only the livestock we took for a prey to ourselves, with the spoil of the cities which we had taken.
 36. From Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and the city that is in the valley, even to Gilead, there was not a city too high for us; Yahweh our God delivered up all before us:
 37. only to the land of the children of Ammon you didn’t come through near; all the side of the river Jabbok, and the cities of the hill country, and wherever Yahweh our God forbade us.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 3

  1. then we turned, and went up the way to Bashan: and Og the ruler of Bashan came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.
  2. Yahweh said to me, “Don’t fear him; for I have delivered him, and all his people, and his land, into your hand; and you shall do to him as you did to Sihon ruler of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon.”
  3. So Yahweh our God delivered into our hand Og also, the ruler of Bashan, and all his people: and we struck him until none was left to him remaining.
  4. We took all his cities at that time; there was not a city which we didn’t grab from them; sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the God's squad of Og in Bashan.
  5. All these were cities fortified with high walls, gates, and bars; besides the unwalled towns a major a lot.
  6. We utterly destroyed them, as we did to Sihon ruler of Heshbon, utterly destroying every inhabited city, with the women and the little ones.
  7. But all the livestock, and the spoil of the cities, we took for a prey to ourselves.
  8. We took the land at that time out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, from the valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon.
  9. (The Sidonians call Hermon Sirion, and the Amorites call it Senir.)
 10. We took all the cities of the plain, and all Gilead, and all Bashan, to Salecah and Edrei, cities of the God's squad of Og in Bashan.
 11. (For only Og ruler of Bashan remained of the remnant of the Rephaim; check this out, his bedstead was a bedstead of iron; isn’t it in Rabbah of the children of Ammon? nine cubits was its length, and four cubits its breadth, after the cubit of a man.)
 12. This land we took in possession at that time: from Aroer, which is by the valley of the Arnon, and half the hill country of Gilead, and its cities, gave I to the Reubenites and to the Gadites:
 13. and the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, the God's squad of Og, gave I to the half-tribe of Manasseh; all the region of Argob, even all Bashan. (The same is called the land of Rephaim.
 14. Jair the son of Manasseh took all the region of Argob, to the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and called them, even Bashan, after his own name, Havvoth Jair, to this day.)
 15. I gave Gilead to Machir.
 16. To the Reubenites and to the Gadites I gave from Gilead even to the valley of the Arnon, the middle of the valley, and its border, even to the river Jabbok, which is the border of the children of Ammon;
 17. the Arabah also, and the Jordan and its border, from Chinnereth even to the sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, under the slopes of Pisgah eastward.
 18. I commanded you at that time, saying, “Yahweh your God has given you this land to possess it: you shall pass over armed before your brothers the children of Israel, all the men of valor.
 19. But your wives, and your little ones, and your livestock, (I get it that you have much livestock), shall live in your cities which I have given you,
 20. until Yahweh gives rest to your brothers, as to you, and they also possess the land which Yahweh your God gives them beyond the Jordan: then you shall return every man to his possession, which I have given you.”
 21. I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, “Your eyes have seen all that Yahweh your God has done to these two kings: so shall Yahweh do to all the kingdoms where you slide over.
 22. You shall not fear them; for Yahweh your God, he it is who fights for you.”
 23. I begged Yahweh at that time, saying,
 24. “boss Yahweh, you have begun to show your helper your greatness, and your built different hand: for what god is there in heaven or in earth, that can do according to your works, and according to your mighty acts?
 25. Please let me slide over and check it out the fire land that is beyond the Jordan, that goodly mountain, and Lebanon.”
 26. But Yahweh was mad salty with me for your sakes, and didn’t listen up to me; and Yahweh said to me, “Let it suffice you; spill the tea no more to me of this matter.
 27. slide up to the top of Pisgah, and lift up your eyes westward, and northward, and southward, and eastward, and check it out with your eyes: for you shall not slide over this Jordan.
 28. But commission Joshua, and encourage him, and strengthen him; for he shall slide over before this people, and he shall cause them to inherit the land which you shall check it out.”
 29. So we stayed in the valley over against Beth Peor.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 4

  1. now, Israel, listen up to the statutes and to the ordinances, which I drop knowledge you, to do them; that you may live, and slide in and possess the land which Yahweh, the God of your fathers, gives you.
  2. You shall not add to the word which I command you, neither shall you diminish from it, that you may keep the commandments of Yahweh your God which I command you.
  3. Your eyes have seen what Yahweh did cuz of Baal Peor; for all the men who followed Baal Peor, Yahweh your God has destroyed them from the midst of you.
  4. But you who were faithful to Yahweh your God are all alive this day.
  5. check this out, I have taught you statutes and ordinances, even as Yahweh my God commanded me, that you should do so in the midst of the land where you slide in to possess it.
  6. Keep so basically and do them; for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples, who shall hear all these statutes, and say, “Surely this major nation is a smart and understanding people.”
  7. For what major nation is there, that has a god so near to them, as Yahweh our God is whenever we call on him?
  8. What major nation is there, that has statutes and ordinances so doing what's right as all this law, which I set before you this day?
  9. Only grab heed to yourself, and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget the things which your eyes checked out, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life; but create them known to your children and your children’s children;
 10. the day that you stood before Yahweh your God in Horeb, when Yahweh said to me, “Assemble me the people, and I will create them hear my words, that they may pick up to fear me all the days that they live on the earth, and that they may drop knowledge their children.”
 11. You came near and stood under the mountain; and the mountain burned with fire to the heart of the sky, with darkness, cloud, and thick darkness.
 12. Yahweh spoke to you out of the midst of the fire: you heard the voice of words, but you checked out no form; you only heard a voice.
 13. He declared to you his God's promise, which he commanded you to perform, even the ten commandments; and he wrote them on two tables of stone.
 14. Yahweh commanded me at that time to drop knowledge you statutes and ordinances, that you might do them in the land where you slide over to possess it.
 15. grab so basically fire heed to yourselves; for you checked out no kind of form on the day that Yahweh spoke to you in Horeb out of the midst of the fire.
 16. Lest you corrupt yourselves, and create yourself an engraved image in the form of any figure, the likeness of male or female,
 17. the likeness of any animal that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the sky,
 18. the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the water under the earth;
 19. and lest you lift up your eyes to the sky, and when you check it out the sun and the moon and the stars, even all the army of the sky, you are drawn away and giving props them, and help out them, which Yahweh your God has allotted to all the peoples under the whole sky.
 20. But Yahweh has taken you, and brought you forth out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to be to him a people of inheritance, as at this day.
 21. Furthermore Yahweh was mad salty with me for your sakes, and swore that I should not slide over the Jordan, and that I should not slide in to that fire land, which Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance:
 22. but I must die in this land, I must not slide over the Jordan; but you shall slide over, and possess that fire land.
 23. grab heed to yourselves, lest you forget the God's promise of Yahweh your God, which he made with you, and create you an engraved image in the form of anything which Yahweh your God has forbidden you.
 24. For Yahweh your God is a devouring fire, a jealous God.
 25. When you shall father children, and children’s children, and you shall have been long in the land, and shall corrupt yourselves, and create an engraved image in the form of anything, and shall do that which is evil in the sight of Yahweh your God, to provoke him to anger;
 26. I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that you shall soon utterly perish from off the land whereunto you slide over the Jordan to possess it; you shall not prolong your days on it, but shall utterly be destroyed.
 27. Yahweh will scatter you among the peoples, and you shall be left not much in number among the nations, where Yahweh shall show the way you away.
 28. there you shall help out gods, the work of men’s hands, wood and stone, which neither check it out, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.
 29. But from there you shall seek Yahweh your God, and you shall find him, when you search after him with all your heart and with all your soul.
 30. When you are in oppression, and all these things have come through on you, in the latter days you shall return to Yahweh your God, and listen up to his voice:
 31. for Yahweh your God is a merciful God; he will not fail you, neither tear down you, nor forget the God's promise of your fathers which he swore to them.
 32. For ask now of the days that are past, which were before you, since the day that God created man on the earth, and from the one end of the sky to the other, whether there has been anything as this major thing is, or has been heard like it?
 33. Did a people ever hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as you have heard, and live?
 34. Or has God tried to slide and grab a nation for himself from the midst of another nation, by trials, by signs, and by wonders, and by war, and by a mighty hand, and by an outstretched arm, and by major terrors, according to all that Yahweh your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes?
 35. It was shown to you so that you might get it that Yahweh is God. there is no one else besides him.
 36. Out of heaven he made you to hear his voice, that he might instruct you: and on earth he made you to check it out his major fire; and you heard his words out of the midst of the fire.
 37. cuz he loved your fathers, so basically he chose their seed after them, and brought you out with his presence, with his major power, out of Egypt;
 38. to drive out nations from before you greater and mightier than you, to bring you in, to hook it up you their land for an inheritance, as at this day.
 39. get it so basically this day, and lay it to your heart, that Yahweh he is God in heaven above and on the earth beneath; there is none else.
 40. You shall keep his statutes, and his commandments, which I command you this day, that it may slide well with you, and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land, which Yahweh your God gives you, forever.
 41. then Moses set apart three cities beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise;
 42. that the manslayer might flee there, who kills his neighbor unawares, and didn’t can't stand him in time past; and that fleeing to one of these cities he might live:
 43. Bezer in the wilderness, in the plain country, for the Reubenites; and Ramoth in Gilead, for the Gadites; and Golan in Bashan, for the Manassites.
 44. This is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel:
 45. these are the testimonies, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which Moses spoke to the children of Israel, when they came forth out of Egypt,
 46. beyond the Jordan, in the valley over against Beth Peor, in the land of Sihon ruler of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon, whom Moses and the children of Israel struck, when they came forth out of Egypt.
 47. They took his land in possession, and the land of Og ruler of Bashan, the two kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise;
 48. from Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, even to Mount Sion (the same is Hermon),
 49. and all the Arabah beyond the Jordan eastward, even to the sea of the Arabah, under the slopes of Pisgah.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 5

  1. Moses called to all Israel, and said to them, Hear, Israel, the statutes and the ordinances which I spill the tea in your ears this day, that you may pick up them, and observe to do them.
  2. Yahweh our God made a God's promise with us in Horeb.
  3. Yahweh didn’t create this God's promise with our fathers, but with us, even us, who are all of us here alive this day.
  4. Yahweh spoke with you face to face on the mountain out of the midst of the fire,
  5. (I stood between Yahweh and you at that time, to show you the word of Yahweh: for you were scared cuz of the fire, and didn’t slide up onto the mountain;) saying,
  6. “I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
  7. “You shall have no other gods before me.
  8. “You shall not create an engraved image for yourself, any likeness of what is in heaven above, or what is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:
  9. you shall not bow down yourself to them, nor help out them; for I, Yahweh, your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, and on the third and on the fourth generation of those who can't stand me;
 10. and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who show love me and keep my commandments.
 11. “You shall not grab the name of Yahweh your God in vain: for Yahweh will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.
 12. “Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it set apart, as Yahweh your God commanded you.
 13. You shall labor six days, and do all your work;
 14. but the day seven is a Sabbath to Yahweh your God, in which you shall not do any work, you, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male helper, nor your female helper, nor your ox, nor your donkey, nor any of your livestock, nor your stranger who is within your gates; that your male helper and your female helper may rest as well as you.
 15. You shall remember that you were a helper in the land of Egypt, and Yahweh your God brought you out of there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm: so basically Yahweh your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day.
 16. “Honor your father and your mother, as Yahweh your God commanded you; that your days may be long, and that it may slide well with you, in the land which Yahweh your God gives you.
 17. “You shall not murder.
 18. “Neither shall you commit adultery.
 19. “Neither shall you steal.
 20. “Neither shall you hook it up false testimony against your neighbor.
 21. “Neither shall you covet your neighbor’s wife; neither shall you desire your neighbor’s house, his field, or his male helper, or his female helper, his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor’s.”
 22. These words Yahweh spoke to all your assembly on the mountain out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a major voice: and he added no more. He wrote them on two tables of stone, and gave them to me.
 23. It happened, when you heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, that you came near to me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders;
 24. and you said, “check this out, Yahweh our God has shown us his glory and his greatness, and we have heard his voice out of the midst of the fire: we have seen this day that God does spill the tea with man, and he lives.
 25. now so basically why should we die? For this major fire will consume us: if we hear the voice of Yahweh our God any more, then we shall die.
 26. For who is there of all flesh, that has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as we have, and lived?
 27. slide near, and hear all that Yahweh our God shall say: and tell us all that Yahweh our God shall tell you; and we will hear it, and do it.”
 28. Yahweh heard the voice of your words, when you spoke to me; and Yahweh said to me, “I have heard the voice of the words of this people, which they have spoken to you: they have well said all that they have spoken.
 29. Oh that there were such a heart in them, that they would fear me, and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them, and with their children forever!
 30. “slide tell them, Return to your tents.
 31. But as for you, stand here by me, and I will tell you all the commandment, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which you shall drop knowledge them, that they may do them in the land which I hook it up them to possess it.”
 32. You shall observe to do so basically as Yahweh your God has commanded you: you shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left.
 33. You shall walk in all the way which Yahweh your God has commanded you, that you may live, and that it may be well with you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which you shall possess.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 6

  1. now this is the commandment, the statutes, and the ordinances, which Yahweh your God commanded to drop knowledge you, that you might do them in the land where you slide over to possess it;
  2. that you might fear Yahweh your God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command you, you, and your son, and your son’s son, all the days of your life; and that your days may be prolonged.
  3. Hear so basically, Israel, and observe to do it; that it may be well with you, and that you may increase mightily, as Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has promised to you, in a land flowing with milk and honey.
  4. Hear, Israel: Yahweh is our God; Yahweh is one:
  5. and you shall show love Yahweh your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might.
  6. These words, which I command you this day, shall be on your heart;
  7. and you shall drop knowledge them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
  8. You shall bind them for a sign on your hand, and they shall be for symbols between your eyes.
  9. You shall write them on the door posts of your house, and on your gates.
 10. It shall be, when Yahweh your God shall bring you into the land which he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to hook it up you, major and goodly cities, which you didn’t put together,
 11. and houses full of all fire things, which you didn’t fill, and cisterns dug out, which you didn’t dig, vineyards and olive trees, which you didn’t plant, and you shall eat and be full;
 12. then beware lest you forget Yahweh, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
 13. You shall fear Yahweh your God; and you shall help out him, and shall swear by his name.
 14. You shall not slide after other gods, of the gods of the peoples who are around you;
 15. for Yahweh your God in the midst of you is a jealous God; lest the anger of Yahweh your God be kindled against you, and he tear down you from off the face of the earth.
 16. You shall not tempt Yahweh your God, as you tempted him in Massah.
 17. You shall diligently keep the commandments of Yahweh your God, and his testimonies, and his statutes, which he has commanded you.
 18. You shall do that which is right and fire in the sight of Yahweh; that it may be well with you, and that you may slide in and possess the fire land which Yahweh swore to your fathers,
 19. to thrust out all your enemies from before you, as Yahweh has spoken.
 20. When your son asks you in time to come through, saying, “What do the testimonies, the statutes, and the ordinances, which Yahweh our God has commanded you mean?”
 21. then you shall tell your son, “We were Pharaoh’s bondservants in Egypt: and Yahweh brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand;
 22. and Yahweh showed major and awesome signs and wonders on Egypt, on Pharaoh, and on all his house, before our eyes;
 23. and he brought us out from there, that he might bring us in, to hook it up us the land which he swore to our fathers.
 24. Yahweh commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear Yahweh our God, for our fire always, that he might preserve us alive, as at this day.
 25. It shall be righteousness to us, if we observe to do all this commandment before Yahweh our God, as he has commanded us.”

# Deuteronomy Chapter 7

  1. When Yahweh your God shall bring you into the land where you slide to possess it, and shall cast out a lot nations before you, the Hittite, and the Girgashite, and the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, seven nations greater and mightier than you;
  2. and when Yahweh your God shall deliver them up before you, and you shall strike them; then you shall utterly tear down them: you shall create no God's promise with them, nor show mercy to them;
  3. neither shall you create marriages with them; your daughter you shall not hook it up to his son, nor shall you grab his daughter for your son.
  4. For he will turn away your son from following me, that they may help out other gods: so the anger of Yahweh would be kindled against you, and he would tear down you quickly.
  5. But you shall deal with them like this: you shall break down their altars, and dash their pillars in pieces, and cut down their Asherim, and burn their engraved images with fire.
  6. For you are a set apart people to Yahweh your God: Yahweh your God has chosen you to be a people for his own possession, above all peoples who are on the face of the earth.
  7. Yahweh didn’t set his show love on you, nor choose you, cuz you were more in number than any people; for you were the fewest of all peoples:
  8. but cuz Yahweh loves you, and cuz he would keep the oath which he swore to your fathers, has Yahweh brought you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh ruler of Egypt.
  9. get it so basically that Yahweh your God, he is God, the faithful God, who keeps God's promise and loving kindness with them who show love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations,
 10. and repays those who can't stand him to their face, to tear down them: he will not be slack to him who hates him, he will repay him to his face.
 11. You shall so basically keep the commandment, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which I command you this day, to do them.
 12. It shall happen, cuz you listen up to these ordinances, and keep and do them, that Yahweh your God will keep with you the God's promise and the loving kindness which he swore to your fathers:
 13. and he will show love you, and bless you, and multiply you; he will also bless the fruit of your body and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your new wine and your oil, the increase of your livestock and the young of your flock, in the land which he swore to your fathers to hook it up you.
 14. You shall be blessed up above all peoples: there shall not be male or female barren among you, or among your livestock.
 15. Yahweh will grab away from you all sickness; and none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which you get it, he will put on you, but will lay them on all those who can't stand you.
 16. You shall consume all the peoples whom Yahweh your God shall deliver to you; your eye shall not pity them: neither shall you help out their gods; for that will be a snare to you.
 17. If you shall say in your heart, “These nations are more than I; how can I dispossess them?”
 18. you shall not be scared of them: you shall well remember what Yahweh your God did to Pharaoh, and to all Egypt;
 19. the major trials which your eyes checked out, and the signs, and the wonders, and the mighty hand, and the outstretched arm, by which Yahweh your God brought you out: so shall Yahweh your God do to all the peoples of whom you are scared.
 20. Moreover Yahweh your God will send the hornet among them, until those who are left, and hide themselves, perish from before you.
 21. You shall not be scared of them; for Yahweh your God is in the midst of you, a major and awesome God.
 22. Yahweh your God will cast out those nations before you by little and little: you may not consume them at once, lest the animals of the field increase on you.
 23. But Yahweh your God will deliver them up before you, and will confuse them with a major confusion, until they be destroyed.
 24. He will deliver their kings into your hand, and you shall create their name to perish from under the sky: no man shall be able to stand before you, until you have destroyed them.
 25. You shall burn the engraved images of their gods with fire. You shall not covet the silver or the gold that is on them, nor grab it for yourself, lest you be snared in it; for it is an abomination to Yahweh your God.
 26. You shall not bring an abomination into your house, and become a devoted thing like it. You shall utterly detest it, and you shall utterly abhor it; for it is a devoted thing.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 8

  1. You shall observe to do all the commandment which I command you this day, that you may live, and multiply, and slide in and possess the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers.
  2. You shall remember all the way which Yahweh your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble you, to prove you, to get it what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments, or not.
  3. He humbled you, and allowed you to be hungry, and fed you with manna, which you didn’t get it, neither did your fathers get it; that he might create you get it that man does not live by bread only, but man lives by everything that proceeds out of the mouth of Yahweh.
  4. Your clothing didn’t grow old on you, neither did your foot swell, these forty years.
  5. You shall consider in your heart that as a man chastens his son, so Yahweh your God chastens you.
  6. You shall keep the commandments of Yahweh your God, to walk in his ways, and to fear him.
  7. For Yahweh your God brings you into a fire land, a land of brooks of water, of springs, and underground water flowing into valleys and hills;
  8. a land of wheat and barley, and vines and fig trees and pomegranates; a land of olive trees and honey;
  9. a land in which you shall eat bread without scarceness, you shall not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills you may dig copper.
 10. You shall eat and be full, and you shall bless Yahweh your God for the fire land which he has given you.
 11. Beware lest you forget Yahweh your God, in not keeping his commandments, and his ordinances, and his statutes, which I command you this day:
 12. lest, when you have eaten and are full, and have built goodly houses, and lived therein;
 13. and when your herds and your flocks multiply, and your silver and your gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied;
 14. then your heart be lifted up, and you forget Yahweh your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage;
 15. who led you through the major and terrible wilderness, with fiery serpents and scorpions, and thirsty ground where there was no water; who brought you forth water out of the rock of flint;
 16. who fed you in the wilderness with manna, which your fathers didn’t get it; that he might humble you, and that he might prove you, to do you fire at your latter end:
 17. and lest you say in your heart, “My power and the might of my hand has gotten me this wealth.”
 18. But you shall remember Yahweh your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth; that he may establish his God's promise which he swore to your fathers, as at this day.
 19. It shall be, if you shall forget Yahweh your God, and walk after other gods, and help out them, and giving props them, I testify against you this day that you shall surely perish.
 20. As the nations that Yahweh makes to perish before you, so you shall perish; cuz you wouldn’t listen up to the voice of Yahweh your God.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 9

  1. Hear, Israel: you are to pass over the Jordan this day, to slide in to dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourself, cities major and fortified up to the sky,
  2. a people major and tall, the sons of the Anakim, whom you get it, and of whom you have heard say, “Who can stand before the sons of Anak?”
  3. get it so basically this day, that Yahweh your God is he who goes over before you as a devouring fire; he will tear down them, and he will bring them down before you: so you shall drive them out, and create them to perish quickly, as Yahweh has spoken to you.
  4. Don’t say in your heart, after Yahweh your God has thrust them out from before you, saying, “For my righteousness Yahweh has brought me in to possess this land;” cuz Yahweh drives them out before you cuz of the wickedness of these nations.
  5. Not for your righteousness, or for the uprightness of your heart, do you slide in to possess their land; but for the wickedness of these nations Yahweh your God does drive them out from before you, and that he may establish the word which Yahweh swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
  6. get it so basically, that Yahweh your God doesn’t hook it up you this fire land to possess it for your righteousness; for you are a stiff-necked people.
  7. Remember, don’t forget, how you provoked Yahweh your God to wrath in the wilderness: from the day that you went forth out of the land of Egypt, until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against Yahweh.
  8. Also in Horeb you provoked Yahweh to wrath, and Yahweh was mad salty with you to tear down you.
  9. When I was gone up onto the mountain to receive the tables of stone, even the tables of the God's promise which Yahweh made with you, then I stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights; I neither ate bread nor drank water.
 10. Yahweh delivered to me the two tables of stone written with the finger of God; and on them were all the words which Yahweh spoke with you on the mountain out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly.
 11. It came to pass at the end of forty days and forty nights, that Yahweh gave me the two tables of stone, even the tables of the God's promise.
 12. Yahweh said to me, “Arise, get down quickly from here; for your people whom you have brought out of Egypt have corrupted themselves; they have quickly turned aside out of the way which I commanded them; they have made them a molten image.”
 13. Furthermore Yahweh spoke to me, saying, “I have seen this people, and check this out, it is a stiff-necked people:
 14. let me alone, that I may tear down them, and blot out their name from under the sky; and I will create of you a nation mightier and greater than they.”
 15. So I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain was burning with fire: and the two tables of the God's promise were in my two hands.
 16. I looked, and check this out, you had sinned against Yahweh your God; you had made yourselves a molten calf: you had turned aside quickly out of the way which Yahweh had commanded you.
 17. I took hold of the two tables, and cast them out of my two hands, and broke them before your eyes.
 18. I fell down before Yahweh, as at the first, forty days and forty nights; I neither ate bread nor drank water; cuz of all your messing up which you sinned, in doing that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, to provoke him to anger.
 19. For I was scared of the anger and hot displeasure, with which Yahweh was mad salty against you to tear down you. But Yahweh listened to me that time also.
 20. Yahweh was hella mad salty with Aaron to tear down him: and I prayed for Aaron also at the same time.
 21. I took your messing up, the calf which you had made, and burnt it with fire, and stamped it, grinding it hella tiny, until it was as fine as dust: and I cast its dust into the brook that descended out of the mountain.
 22. At Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibroth Hattaavah, you provoked Yahweh to wrath.
 23. When Yahweh sent you from Kadesh Barnea, saying, “slide up and possess the land which I have given you;” then you rebelled against the commandment of Yahweh your God, and you didn’t believe him, nor listen up to his voice.
 24. You have been rebellious against Yahweh from the day that I knew you.
 25. So I fell down before Yahweh the forty days and forty nights that I fell down, cuz Yahweh had said he would tear down you.
 26. I prayed to Yahweh, and said, “boss Yahweh, don’t tear down your people and your inheritance, that you have redeemed through your greatness, that you have brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
 27. Remember your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; don’t look to the stubbornness of this people, nor to their wickedness, nor to their messing up,
 28. lest the land you brought us out from say, ‘cuz Yahweh was not able to bring them into the land which he promised to them, and cuz he hated them, he has brought them out to kill them in the wilderness.’
 29. Yet they are your people and your inheritance, which you brought out by your major power and by your outstretched arm.”

# Deuteronomy Chapter 10

  1. At that time Yahweh said to me, “Cut two tables of stone like the first, and come through up to me onto the mountain, and create an ark of wood.
  2. I will write on the tables the words that were on the first tables which you broke, and you shall put them in the ark.”
  3. So I made an ark of acacia wood, and cut two tables of stone like the first, and went up onto the mountain, having the two tables in my hand.
  4. He wrote on the tables, according to the first writing, the ten commandments, which Yahweh spoke to you on the mountain out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly: and Yahweh gave them to me.
  5. I turned and came down from the mountain, and put the tables in the ark which I had made; and there they are as Yahweh commanded me.
  6. (The children of Israel traveled from Beeroth Bene Jaakan to Moserah. there Aaron died, and there he was buried; and Eleazar his son ministered in the priest’s office in his place.
  7. From there they traveled to Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of brooks of water.
  8. At that time Yahweh set apart the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh, to stand before Yahweh to minister to him, and to bless in his name, to this day.
  9. so basically Levi has no portion nor inheritance with his brothers; Yahweh is his inheritance, according as Yahweh your God spoke to him.)
 10. I stayed on the mountain, as at the first time, forty days and forty nights: and Yahweh listened to me that time also; Yahweh would not tear down you.
 11. Yahweh said to me, “Arise, grab your journey before the people; and they shall slide in and possess the land, which I swore to their fathers to hook it up to them.”
 12. now, Israel, what does Yahweh your God require of you, but to fear Yahweh your God, to walk in all his ways, and to show love him, and to help out Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul,
 13. to keep the commandments of Yahweh, and his statutes, which I command you this day for your fire?
 14. check this out, to Yahweh your God belongs heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth, with all that is therein.
 15. Only Yahweh had a delight in your fathers to show love them, and he chose their seed after them, even you above all peoples, as at this day.
 16. Circumcise so basically the foreskin of your heart, and be no more stiff-necked.
 17. For Yahweh your God, he is God of gods, and boss of lords, the major God, the mighty, and the awesome, who doesn’t respect persons, nor takes reward.
 18. He does execute justice for the fatherless and widow, and loves the foreigner, in giving him food and clothing.
 19. so basically show love the foreigner; for you were foreigners in the land of Egypt.
 20. You shall fear Yahweh your God; you shall help out him; and you shall cling to him, and you shall swear by his name.
 21. He is your praise, and he is your God, who has done for you these major and awesome things, which your eyes have seen.
 22. Your fathers went down into Egypt with seventy persons; and now Yahweh your God has made you as the stars of the sky for multitude.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 11

  1. so basically you shall show love Yahweh your God, and keep his instructions, and his statutes, and his ordinances, and his commandments, always.
  2. get it this day: for I don’t spill the tea with your children who have not known, and who have not seen the chastisement of Yahweh your God, his greatness, his mighty hand, and his outstretched arm,
  3. and his signs, and his works, which he did in the midst of Egypt to Pharaoh the ruler of Egypt, and to all his land;
  4. and what he did to the army of Egypt, to their horses, and to their chariots; how he made the water of the Red Sea to overflow them as they pursued after you, and how Yahweh has destroyed them to this day;
  5. and what he did to you in the wilderness, until you came to this place;
  6. and what he did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben; how the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up, and their households, and their tents, and every living thing that followed them, in the midst of all Israel:
  7. but your eyes have seen all the major work of Yahweh which he did.
  8. so basically you shall keep all the commandment which I command you this day, that you may be built different, and slide in and possess the land, where you slide over to possess it;
  9. and that you may prolong your days in the land, which Yahweh swore to your fathers to hook it up to them and to their seed, a land flowing with milk and honey.
 10. For the land, where you slide in to possess it, isn’t as the land of Egypt, that you came out from, where you sowed your seed, and watered it with your foot, as a garden of herbs;
 11. but the land, where you slide over to possess it, is a land of hills and valleys which drinks water of the rain of the sky,
 12. a land which Yahweh your God cares for: the eyes of Yahweh your God are always on it, from the beginning of the year even to the end of the year.
 13. It shall happen, if you shall listen up diligently to my commandments which I command you this day, to show love Yahweh your God, and to help out him with all your heart and with all your soul,
 14. that I will hook it up the rain of your land in its season, the former rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil.
 15. I will hook it up grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be full.
 16. grab heed to yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside, and help out other gods, and giving props them;
 17. and the anger of Yahweh be kindled against you, and he shut up the sky, so that there shall be no rain, and the land shall not yield its fruit; and you perish quickly from off the fire land which Yahweh gives you.
 18. so basically you shall lay up these my words in your heart and in your soul; and you shall bind them for a sign on your hand, and they shall be for symbols between your eyes.
 19. You shall drop knowledge them your children, talking of them, when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
 20. You shall write them on the door posts of your house, and on your gates;
 21. that your days may be multiplied, and the days of your children, in the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers to hook it up them, as the days of the heavens above the earth.
 22. For if you shall diligently keep all this commandment which I command you, to do it, to show love Yahweh your God, to walk in all his ways, and to cling to him;
 23. then will Yahweh drive out all these nations from before you, and you shall dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourselves.
 24. Every place whereon the sole of your foot shall tread shall be yours: from the wilderness, and Lebanon, from the river, the river Euphrates, even to the hinder sea shall be your border.
 25. No man shall be able to stand before you: Yahweh your God shall lay the fear of you and the dread of you on all the land that you shall tread on, as he has spoken to you.
 26. check this out, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse:
 27. the blessing, if you shall listen up to the commandments of Yahweh your God, which I command you this day;
 28. and the curse, if you shall not listen up to the commandments of Yahweh your God, but turn aside out of the way which I command you this day, to slide after other gods, which you have not known.
 29. It shall happen, when Yahweh your God shall bring you into the land where you slide to possess it, that you shall set the blessing on Mount Gerizim, and the curse on Mount Ebal.
 30. Aren’t they beyond the Jordan, behind the way of the going down of the sun, in the land of the Canaanites who dwell in the Arabah, over against Gilgal, beside the oaks of Moreh?
 31. For you are to pass over the Jordan to slide in to possess the land which Yahweh your God gives you, and you shall possess it, and dwell therein.
 32. You shall observe to do all the statutes and the ordinances which I set before you this day.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 12

  1. These are the statutes and the ordinances which you shall observe to do in the land which Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has given you to possess it, all the days that you live on the earth.
  2. You shall surely tear down all the places in which the nations that you shall dispossess served their gods, on the high mountains, and on the hills, and under every green tree:
  3. and you shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and burn their Asherim with fire; and you shall cut down the engraved images of their gods; and you shall tear down their name out of that place.
  4. You shall not do so to Yahweh your God.
  5. But to the place which Yahweh your God shall choose out of all your tribes, to put his name there, even to his habitation you shall seek, and there you shall come through;
  6. and there you shall bring your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and the wave giving to God of your hand, and your vows, and your freewill offerings, and the firstborn of your herd and of your flock:
  7. and there you shall eat before Yahweh your God, and you shall be hyped in all that you put your hand to, you and your households, in which Yahweh your God has blessed up you.
  8. You shall not do after all the things that we do here this day, every man whatever is right in his own eyes;
  9. for you haven’t yet come through to the rest and to the inheritance, which Yahweh your God gives you.
 10. But when you slide over the Jordan, and dwell in the land which Yahweh your God causes you to inherit, and he gives you rest from all your enemies around you, so that you dwell in safety;
 11. then it shall happen that to the place which Yahweh your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there, there you shall bring all that I command you: your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, your tithes, and the wave giving to God of your hand, and all your choice vows which you vow to Yahweh.
 12. You shall be hyped before Yahweh your God, you, and your sons, and your daughters, and your male servants, and your female servants, and the Levite who is within your gates, cuz he has no portion nor inheritance with you.
 13. grab heed to yourself that you don’t offer your burnt offerings in every place that you check it out;
 14. but in the place which Yahweh shall choose in one of your tribes, there you shall offer your burnt offerings, and there you shall do all that I command you.
 15. Notwithstanding, you may kill and eat flesh within all your gates, after all the desire of your soul, according to the blessing of Yahweh your God which he has given you: the unclean and the clean may eat of it, as of the gazelle, and as of the hart.
 16. Only you shall not eat the blood; you shall pour it out on the earth as water.
 17. You may not eat within your gates the tithe of your grain, or of your new wine, or of your oil, or the firstborn of your herd or of your flock, nor any of your vows which you vow, nor your freewill offerings, nor the wave giving to God of your hand;
 18. but you shall eat them before Yahweh your God in the place which Yahweh your God shall choose, you, and your son, and your daughter, and your male helper, and your female helper, and the Levite who is within your gates: and you shall be hyped before Yahweh your God in all that you put your hand to.
 19. grab heed to yourself that you don’t forsake the Levite as long as you live in your land.
 20. When Yahweh your God shall enlarge your border, as he has promised you, and you shall say, “I want to eat meat,” cuz your soul desires to eat meat; you may eat meat, after all the desire of your soul.
 21. If the place which Yahweh your God shall choose, to put his name there, is too far from you, then you shall kill of your herd and of your flock, which Yahweh has given you, as I have commanded you; and you may eat within your gates, after all the desire of your soul.
 22. Even as the gazelle and as the hart is eaten, so you shall eat of it: the unclean and the clean may eat of it alike.
 23. Only be sure that you don’t eat the blood: for the blood is the life; and you shall not eat the life with the flesh.
 24. You shall not eat it; you shall pour it out on the earth as water.
 25. You shall not eat it; that it may slide well with you, and with your children after you, when you shall do that which is right in the eyes of Yahweh.
 26. Only your set apart things which you have, and your vows, you shall grab, and slide to the place which Yahweh shall choose:
 27. and you shall offer your burnt offerings, the flesh and the blood, on the prayer spot of Yahweh your God; and the blood of your sacrifices shall be poured out on the prayer spot of Yahweh your God; and you shall eat the flesh.
 28. Observe and hear all these words which I command you, that it may slide well with you, and with your children after you forever, when you do that which is fire and right in the eyes of Yahweh your God.
 29. When Yahweh your God shall cut off the nations from before you, where you slide in to dispossess them, and you dispossess them, and dwell in their land;
 30. grab heed to yourself that you not be ensnared to roll with them, after that they are destroyed from before you; and that you not inquire after their gods, saying, “How do these nations help out their gods? I will do likewise.”
 31. You shall not do so to Yahweh your God: for every abomination to Yahweh, which he hates, have they done to their gods; for even their sons and their daughters do they burn in the fire to their gods.
 32. Whatever thing I command you, that you shall observe to do: you shall not add thereto, nor diminish from it.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 13

  1. If there arise in the midst of you a God's messenger, or a dreamer of dreams, and he hook it up you a sign or a wonder,
  2. and the sign or the wonder come through to pass, of which he spoke to you, saying, “Let us slide after other gods” (which you have not known) “and let us help out them;”
  3. you shall not listen up to the words of that God's messenger, or to that dreamer of dreams: for Yahweh your God proves you, to get it whether you show love Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
  4. You shall walk after Yahweh your God, and fear him, and keep his commandments, and obey his voice, and you shall help out him, and cling to him.
  5. That God's messenger, or that dreamer of dreams, shall be put to death, cuz he has spoken rebellion against Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage, to draw you aside out of the way which Yahweh your God commanded you to walk in. So you shall put away the evil from the midst of you.
  6. If your brother, the son of your mother, or your son, or your daughter, or the wife of your bosom, or your friend, who is as your own soul, entice you secretly, saying, “Let us slide and help out other gods,” which you have not known, you, nor your fathers;
  7. of the gods of the peoples who are around you, near to you, or far off from you, from the one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth;
  8. you shall not consent to him, nor listen up to him; neither shall your eye pity him, neither shall you spare, neither shall you conceal him:
  9. but you shall surely kill him; your hand shall be first on him to put him to death, and afterwards the hand of all the people.
 10. You shall stone him to death with stones, cuz he has sought to draw you away from Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
 11. All Israel shall hear, and fear, and shall not do any more such wickedness as this is in the midst of you.
 12. If you shall hear tell concerning one of your cities, which Yahweh your God gives you to dwell there, saying,
 13. Certain base fellows are gone out from the midst of you, and have drawn away the inhabitants of their city, saying, “Let us slide and help out other gods,” which you have not known;
 14. then you shall inquire, and create search, and ask diligently; and, check this out, if it be truth, and the thing certain, that such abomination is done in the midst of you,
 15. you shall surely strike the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, destroying it utterly, and all that is therein and its livestock, with the edge of the sword.
 16. You shall gather all its spoil into the midst of its street, and shall burn with fire the city, and all its spoil every whit, to Yahweh your God: and it shall be a heap forever; it shall not be built again.
 17. Nothing of the devoted thing shall cling to your hand; that Yahweh may turn from the fierceness of his anger, and show you mercy, and have compassion on you, and multiply you, as he has sworn to your fathers;
 18. when you shall listen up to the voice of Yahweh your God, to keep all his commandments which I command you this day, to do that which is right in the eyes of Yahweh your God.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 14

  1. You are the children of Yahweh your God: you shall not cut yourselves, nor create any baldness between your eyes for the dead.
  2. For you are a set apart people to Yahweh your God, and Yahweh has chosen you to be a people for his own possession, above all peoples who are on the face of the earth.
  3. You shall not eat any abominable thing.
  4. These are the animals which you may eat: the ox, the sheep, and the goat,
  5. the hart, and the gazelle, and the roebuck, and the wild goat, and the ibex, and the antelope, and the chamois.
  6. Every animal that parts the hoof, and has the hoof cloven in two and chews the cud, among the animals, that may you eat.
  7. Nevertheless these you shall not eat of them that chew the cud, or of those who have the hoof cloven: the camel, and the hare, and the rabbit; cuz they chew the cud but don’t part the hoof, they are unclean to you.
  8. The pig, cuz it has a split hoof but doesn’t chew the cud, is unclean to you: of their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall not touch.
  9. These you may eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales may you eat;
 10. and whatever doesn’t have fins and scales you shall not eat; it is unclean to you.
 11. Of all clean birds you may eat.
 12. But these are they of which you shall not eat: the eagle, and the vulture, and the osprey,
 13. and the red kite, and the falcon, and the kite after its kind,
 14. and every raven after its kind,
 15. and the ostrich, and the owl, and the seagull, and the hawk after its kind,
 16. the little owl, and the major owl, and the horned owl,
 17. and the pelican, and the vulture, and the cormorant,
 18. and the stork, and the heron after its kind, and the hoopoe, and the bat.
 19. All winged creeping things are unclean to you: they shall not be eaten.
 20. Of all clean birds you may eat.
 21. You shall not eat of anything that dies of itself: you may hook it up it to the foreigner living among you who is within your gates, that he may eat it; or you may sell it to a foreigner: for you are a set apart people to Yahweh your God. You shall not boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.
 22. You shall surely tithe all the increase of your seed, that which comes forth from the field year by year.
 23. You shall eat before Yahweh your God, in the place which he shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there, the tithe of your grain, of your new wine, and of your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and of your flock; that you may pick up to fear Yahweh your God always.
 24. If the way is too long for you, so that you are not able to carry it, cuz the place is too far from you, which Yahweh your God shall choose, to set his name there, when Yahweh your God shall bless you;
 25. then you shall turn it into money, and bind up the money in your hand, and shall slide to the place which Yahweh your God shall choose:
 26. and you shall bestow the money for whatever your soul desires, for cattle, or for sheep, or for wine, or for built different drink, or for whatever your soul asks of you; and you shall eat there before Yahweh your God, and you shall be hyped, you and your household.
 27. The Levite who is within your gates, you shall not forsake him; for he has no portion nor inheritance with you.
 28. At the end of every three years you shall bring forth all the tithe of your increase in the same year, and shall lay it up within your gates:
 29. and the Levite, cuz he has no portion nor inheritance with you, and the foreigner living among you, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are within your gates, shall come through, and shall eat and be satisfied; that Yahweh your God may bless you in all the work of your hand which you do.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 15

  1. At the end of every seven years you shall create a release.
  2. This is the way of the release: every creditor shall release that which he has lent to his neighbor; he shall not exact it of his neighbor and his brother; cuz Yahweh’s release has been proclaimed.
  3. Of a foreigner you may exact it: but whatever of your is with your brother your hand shall release.
  4. but like there shall be no broke with you; (for Yahweh will surely bless you in the land which Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance to possess it;)
  5. if only you diligently listen up to the voice of Yahweh your God, to observe to do all this commandment which I command you this day.
  6. For Yahweh your God will bless you, as he promised you: and you shall lend to a lot nations, but you shall not borrow; and you shall rule over a lot nations, but they shall not rule over you.
  7. If a broke man, one of your brothers, is with you within any of your gates in your land which Yahweh your God gives you, you shall not harden your heart, nor shut your hand from your broke brother;
  8. but you shall surely open your hand to him, and shall surely lend him sufficient for his need, which he lacks.
  9. Beware that there not be a base thought in your heart, saying, “The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand;” and your eye be evil against your broke brother, and you hook it up him nothing; and he cry to Yahweh against you, and it be messing up to you.
 10. You shall surely hook it up him, and your heart shall not be grieved when you hook it up to him; cuz that for this thing Yahweh your God will bless you in all your work, and in all that you put your hand to.
 11. For the broke will never cease out of the land: so basically I command you, saying, You shall surely open your hand to your brother, to your needy, and to your broke, in your land.
 12. If your brother, a Hebrew man, or a Hebrew woman, is sold to you, and serves you six years; then in the seventh year you shall let him slide free from you.
 13. When you let him slide free from you, you shall not let him slide empty:
 14. you shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, and out of your threshing floor, and out of your winepress; as Yahweh your God has blessed up you, you shall hook it up to him.
 15. You shall remember that you were a bondservant in the land of Egypt, and Yahweh your God redeemed you: so basically I command you this thing today.
 16. It shall be, if he tells you, “I will not slide out from you;” cuz he loves you and your house, cuz he is well with you;
 17. then you shall grab an awl, and thrust it through his ear to the door, and he shall be your helper forever. Also to your female helper you shall do likewise.
 18. It shall not seem hard to you, when you let him slide free from you; for to the double of the hire of a hireling has he served you six years: and Yahweh your God will bless you in all that you do.
 19. All the firstborn males that are born of your herd and of your flock you shall sanctify to Yahweh your God: you shall do no work with the firstborn of your herd, nor shear the firstborn of your flock.
 20. You shall eat it before Yahweh your God year by year in the place which Yahweh shall choose, you and your household.
 21. If it has any blemish, is lame or blind, or has any defect whatever, you shall not giving it up it to Yahweh your God.
 22. You shall eat it within your gates: the unclean and the clean shall eat it alike, as the gazelle, and as the hart.
 23. Only you shall not eat its blood; you shall pour it out on the ground as water.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 16

  1. Observe the month of Abib, and keep the Passover to Yahweh your God; for in the month of Abib Yahweh your God brought you forth out of Egypt by night.
  2. You shall giving it up the Passover to Yahweh your God, of the flock and the herd, in the place which Yahweh shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
  3. You shall eat no leavened bread with it. You shall eat unleavened bread with it seven days, even the bread of affliction; for you came forth out of the land of Egypt in haste: that you may remember the day when you came forth out of the land of Egypt all the days of your life.
  4. No yeast shall be seen with you in all your borders seven days; neither shall any of the flesh, which you giving it up the day one at evening, remain all night until the morning.
  5. You may not giving it up the Passover within any of your gates, which Yahweh your God gives you;
  6. but at the place which Yahweh your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell in, there you shall giving it up the Passover at evening, at the going down of the sun, at the season that you came forth out of Egypt.
  7. You shall roast and eat it in the place which Yahweh your God shall choose: and you shall turn in the morning, and slide to your tents.
  8. Six days you shall eat unleavened bread. On the day seven shall be a solemn assembly to Yahweh your God; you shall do no work.
  9. You shall count for yourselves seven weeks: from the time you begin to put the sickle to the standing grain you shall begin to number seven weeks.
 10. You shall keep the feast of weeks to Yahweh your God with a tribute of a freewill giving to God of your hand, which you shall hook it up, according as Yahweh your God blesses you:
 11. and you shall be hyped before Yahweh your God, you, and your son, and your daughter, and your male helper, and your female helper, and the Levite who is within your gates, and the foreigner, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are in the midst of you, in the place which Yahweh your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
 12. You shall remember that you were a bondservant in Egypt: and you shall observe and do these statutes.
 13. You shall keep the feast of tents seven days, after that you have gathered in from your threshing floor and from your winepress:
 14. and you shall be hyped in your feast, you, and your son, and your daughter, and your male helper, and your female helper, and the Levite, and the foreigner, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are within your gates.
 15. You shall keep a feast to Yahweh your God seven days in the place which Yahweh shall choose; cuz Yahweh your God will bless you in all your increase, and in all the work of your hands, and you shall be altogether joyful.
 16. Three times in a year shall all your males appear before Yahweh your God in the place which he shall choose: in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tents; and they shall not appear before Yahweh empty:
 17. every man shall hook it up as he is able, according to the blessing of Yahweh your God which he has given you.
 18. You shall create judges and officers in all your gates, which Yahweh your God gives you, according to your tribes; and they shall judge the people with doing what's right judgment.
 19. You shall not wrest justice: you shall not respect persons; neither shall you grab a bribe; for a bribe does blind the eyes of the smart, and pervert the words of the doing what's right.
 20. You shall roll with that which is altogether just, that you may live, and inherit the land which Yahweh your God gives you.
 21. You shall not plant for yourselves an Asherah of any kind of tree beside the prayer spot of Yahweh your God, which you shall create for yourselves.
 22. Neither shall you set yourself up a pillar; which Yahweh your God hates.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 17

  1. You shall not giving it up to Yahweh your God an ox, or a sheep, in which is a blemish, or anything evil; for that is an abomination to Yahweh your God.
  2. If there is found in the midst of you, within any of your gates which Yahweh your God gives you, man or woman, who does that which is evil in the sight of Yahweh your God, in transgressing his God's promise,
  3. and has gone and served other gods, and worshiped them, or the sun, or the moon, or any of the army of the sky, which I have not commanded;
  4. and it be told you, and you have heard of it, then you shall inquire diligently; and check this out, if it be true, and the thing certain, that such abomination is done in Israel,
  5. then you shall bring forth that man or that woman, who has done this evil thing, to your gates, even the man or the woman; and you shall stone them to death with stones.
  6. At the mouth of two witnesses, or three witnesses, shall he who is to die be put to death; at the mouth of one witness he shall not be put to death.
  7. The hand of the witnesses shall be first on him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people. So you shall put away the evil from the midst of you.
  8. If there arises a matter too hard for you in judgment, between blood and blood, between plea and plea, and between stroke and stroke, being matters of controversy within your gates; then you shall arise, and slide up to the place which Yahweh your God shall choose;
  9. and you shall come through to the priests the Levites, and to the judge who shall be in those days: and you shall inquire; and they shall show you the sentence of judgment.
 10. You shall do according to the tenor of the sentence which they shall show you from that place which Yahweh shall choose; and you shall observe to do according to all that they shall drop knowledge you:
 11. according to the tenor of the law which they shall drop knowledge you, and according to the judgment which they shall tell you, you shall do; you shall not turn aside from the sentence which they shall show you, to the right hand, nor to the left.
 12. The man who does presumptuously, in not listening to the priest who stands to minister there before Yahweh your God, or to the judge, even that man shall die: and you shall put away the evil from Israel.
 13. All the people shall hear, and fear, and do no more presumptuously.
 14. When you have come through to the land which Yahweh your God gives you, and shall possess it, and shall dwell therein, and shall say, “I will set a ruler over me, like all the nations that are around me;”
 15. you shall surely set him ruler over yourselves, whom Yahweh your God shall choose: one from among your brothers you shall set ruler over you; you may not put a foreigner over you, who is not your brother.
 16. Only he shall not multiply horses to himself, nor cause the people to return to Egypt, to the end that he may multiply horses; cuz Yahweh has said to you, “You shall not slide back that way again.”
 17. Neither shall he multiply wives to himself, that his heart not turn away: neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold.
 18. It shall be, when he sits on the throne of his God's squad, that he shall write him a copy of this law in a book, out of that which is before the priests the Levites:
 19. and it shall be with him, and he shall read therein all the days of his life; that he may pick up to fear Yahweh his God, to keep all the words of this law and these statutes, to do them;
 20. that his heart not be lifted up above his brothers, and that he not turn aside from the commandment, to the right hand, or to the left: to the end that he may prolong his days in his God's squad, he and his children, in the midst of Israel.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 18

  1. The priests the Levites, all the tribe of Levi, shall have no portion nor inheritance with Israel: they shall eat the offerings of Yahweh made by fire, and his inheritance.
  2. They shall have no inheritance among their brothers: Yahweh is their inheritance, as he has spoken to them.
  3. This shall be the priests’ due from the people, from those who offer a giving it up, whether it be ox or sheep, that they shall hook it up to the priest the shoulder, and the two cheeks, and the maw.
  4. The first fruits of your grain, of your new wine, and of your oil, and the first of the fleece of your sheep, you shall hook it up him.
  5. For Yahweh your God has chosen him out of all your tribes, to stand to minister in the name of Yahweh, him and his sons for ever.
  6. If a Levite comes from any of your gates out of all Israel, where he lives as a foreigner, and comes with all the desire of his soul to the place which Yahweh shall choose;
  7. then he shall minister in the name of Yahweh his God, as all his brothers the Levites do, who stand there before Yahweh.
  8. They shall have like portions to eat, besides that which comes of the sale of his patrimony.
  9. When you have come through into the land which Yahweh your God gives you, you shall not pick up to do after the abominations of those nations.
 10. there shall not be found with you anyone who makes his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, one who uses divination, one who practices sorcery, or an enchanter, or a sorcerer,
 11. or a charmer, or a consulter with a familiar spirit, or a wizard, or a necromancer.
 12. For whoever does these things is an abomination to Yahweh: and cuz of these abominations Yahweh your God does drive them out from before you.
 13. You shall be perfect with Yahweh your God.
 14. For these nations, that you shall dispossess, listen up to those who practice sorcery, and to diviners; but as for you, Yahweh your God has not allowed you so to do.
 15. Yahweh your God will raise up to you a God's messenger from the midst of you, of your brothers, like me. You shall listen up to him.
 16. This is according to all that you desired of Yahweh your God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, “Let me not hear again the voice of Yahweh my God, neither let me check it out this major fire any more, that I not die.”
 17. Yahweh said to me, “They have well said that which they have spoken.
 18. I will raise them up a God's messenger from among their brothers, like you; and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall spill the tea to them all that I shall command him.
 19. It shall happen, that whoever will not listen up to my words which he shall spill the tea in my name, I will require it of him.
 20. But the God's messenger, who shall spill the tea a word presumptuously in my name, which I have not commanded him to spill the tea, or who shall spill the tea in the name of other gods, that same God's messenger shall die.”
 21. If you say in your heart, “How shall we get it the word which Yahweh has not spoken?”
 22. when a God's messenger speaks in the name of Yahweh, if the thing doesn’t roll with, nor happen, that is the thing which Yahweh has not spoken: the God's messenger has spoken it presumptuously, you shall not be scared of him.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 19

  1. When Yahweh your God shall cut off the nations, whose land Yahweh your God gives you, and you succeed them, and dwell in their cities, and in their houses;
  2. you shall set apart three cities for you in the midst of your land, which Yahweh your God gives you to possess it.
  3. You shall prepare you the way, and divide the borders of your land, which Yahweh your God causes you to inherit, into three parts, that every manslayer may flee there.
  4. This is the case of the manslayer, that shall flee there and live: whoever kills his neighbor unawares, and didn’t can't stand him in time past;
  5. as when a man goes into the forest with his neighbor to chop wood, and his hand fetches a stroke with the axe to cut down the tree, and the head slips from the handle, and lights on his neighbor, so that he dies; he shall flee to one of these cities and live:
  6. lest the avenger of blood pursue the manslayer, while his heart is hot, and overtake him, cuz the way is long, and strike him mortally; whereas he was not worthy of death, inasmuch as he didn’t can't stand him in time past.
  7. so basically I command you, saying, You shall set apart three cities for yourselves.
  8. If Yahweh your God enlarges your border, as he has sworn to your fathers, and gives you all the land which he promised to hook it up to your fathers;
  9. if you keep all this commandment to do it, which I command you this day, to show love Yahweh your God, and to walk ever in his ways; then you shall add three cities more for yourselves, besides these three:
 10. that innocent blood not be shed in the midst of your land, which Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance, and so blood be on you.
 11. But if any man hates his neighbor, and lies in wait for him, and rises up against him, and strikes him mortally so that he dies, and he flees into one of these cities;
 12. then the elders of his city shall send and bring him there, and deliver him into the hand of the avenger of blood, that he may die.
 13. Your eye shall not pity him, but you shall put away the innocent blood from Israel, that it may slide well with you.
 14. You shall not remove your neighbor’s landmark, which they of old time have set, in your inheritance which you shall inherit, in the land that Yahweh your God gives you to possess it.
 15. One witness shall not rise up against a man for any iniquity, or for any messing up, in any messing up that he sins: at the mouth of two witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall a matter be established.
 16. If an unrighteous witness rise up against any man to testify against him of wrongdoing,
 17. then both the men, between whom the controversy is, shall stand before Yahweh, before the priests and the judges who shall be in those days;
 18. and the judges shall create diligent inquisition: and, check this out, if the witness is a false witness, and has testified falsely against his brother;
 19. then you shall do to him as he had thought to do to his brother: so you shall put away the evil from the midst of you.
 20. Those who remain shall hear, and fear, and shall henceforth commit no more any such evil in the midst of you.
 21. Your eyes shall not pity: life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 20

  1. When you slide forth to battle against your enemies, and check it out horses, chariots, and a people more than you, you shall not be scared of them; for Yahweh your God is with you, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt.
  2. It shall be, when you draw near to the battle, that the priest shall approach and spill the tea to the people,
  3. and shall tell them, “Hear, Israel, you draw near this day to battle against your enemies: don’t let your heart faint; don’t be scared, nor tremble, neither be scared of them;
  4. for Yahweh your God is he who goes with you, to fight for you against your enemies, to rescue you.”
  5. The officers shall spill the tea to the people, saying, “What man is there who has built a new house, and has not dedicated it? Let him slide and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man dedicate it.
  6. What man is there who has planted a vineyard, and has not used its fruit? Let him slide and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man use its fruit.
  7. What man is there who has pledged to be married a wife, and has not taken her? Let him slide and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man grab her.”
  8. The officers shall spill the tea further to the people, and they shall say, “What man is there who is fearful and fainthearted? Let him slide and return to his house, lest his brother’s heart melt as his heart.”
  9. It shall be, when the officers have made an end of speaking to the people, that they shall appoint captains of armies at the head of the people.
 10. When you draw near to a city to fight against it, then proclaim peace to it.
 11. It shall be, if it makes you answer of peace, and opens to you, then it shall be, that all the people who are found therein shall become tributary to you, and shall help out you.
 12. If it will create no peace with you, but will create war against you, then you shall besiege it:
 13. and when Yahweh your God delivers it into your hand, you shall strike every male of it with the edge of the sword:
 14. but the women, and the little ones, and the livestock, and all that is in the city, even all its spoil, you shall grab for a prey to yourself; and you shall eat the spoil of your enemies, which Yahweh your God has given you.
 15. Thus you shall do to all the cities which are hella far off from you, which are not of the cities of these nations.
 16. But of the cities of these peoples, that Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance, you shall rescue alive nothing that breathes;
 17. but you shall utterly tear down them: the Hittite, and the Amorite, the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite; as Yahweh your God has commanded you;
 18. that they not drop knowledge you to do after all their abominations, which they have done to their gods; so would you messing up against Yahweh your God.
 19. When you shall besiege a city a long time, in making war against it to grab it, you shall not tear down its trees by wielding an axe against them; for you may eat of them, and you shall not cut them down; for is the tree of the field man, that it should be besieged of you?
 20. Only the trees of which you get it that they are not trees for food, you shall tear down and cut them down; and you shall put together bulwarks against the city that makes war with you, until it fall.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 21

  1. If one be found slain in the land which Yahweh your God gives you to possess it, lying in the field, and it isn’t known who has struck him;
  2. then your elders and your judges shall come through forth, and they shall measure to the cities which are around him who is slain:
  3. and it shall be, that the city which is nearest to the slain man, even the elders of that city shall grab a heifer of the herd, which hasn’t been worked with, and which has not drawn in the yoke;
  4. and the elders of that city shall bring down the heifer to a valley with running water, which is neither plowed nor sown, and shall break the heifer’s neck there in the valley.
  5. The priests the sons of Levi shall come through near; for them Yahweh your God has chosen to minister to him, and to bless in the name of Yahweh; and according to their word shall every controversy and every stroke be.
  6. All the elders of that city, who are nearest to the slain man, shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in the valley;
  7. and they shall answer and say, “Our hands have not shed this blood, neither have our eyes seen it.
  8. Forgive, Yahweh, your people Israel, whom you have redeemed, and don’t allow innocent blood in the midst of your people Israel.” The blood shall be forgiven them.
  9. So you shall put away the innocent blood from the midst of you, when you shall do that which is right in the eyes of Yahweh.
 10. When you slide forth to battle against your enemies, and Yahweh your God delivers them into your hands, and you carry them away captive,
 11. and check it out among the captives a snatched woman, and you have a desire to her, and would grab her to you as wife;
 12. then you shall bring her home to your house; and she shall shave her head, and pare her nails;
 13. and she shall put the clothing of her captivity from off her, and shall remain in your house, and bewail her father and her mother a full month: and after that you shall slide in to her, and be her husband, and she shall be your wife.
 14. It shall be, if you have no delight in her, then you shall let her slide where she will; but you shall not sell her at all for money, you shall not deal with her as a helper, cuz you have humbled her.
 15. If a man have two wives, the one beloved, and the other hated, and they have borne him children, both the beloved and the hated; and if the firstborn son be hers who was hated;
 16. then it shall be, in the day that he causes his sons to inherit that which he has, that he may not create the son of the beloved the firstborn before the son of the hated, who is the firstborn:
 17. but he shall acknowledge the firstborn, the son of the hated, by giving him a double portion of all that he has; for he is the beginning of his strength; the right of the firstborn is his.
 18. If a man have a stubborn and rebellious son, who will not obey the voice of his father, or the voice of his mother, and, though they chasten him, will not listen up to them;
 19. then shall his father and his mother lay hold on him, and bring him out to the elders of his city, and to the gate of his place;
 20. and they shall tell the elders of his city, “This our son is stubborn and rebellious, he will not obey our voice; he is a glutton, and a drunkard.”
 21. All the men of his city shall stone him to death with stones: so you shall put away the evil from the midst of you; and all Israel shall hear, and fear.
 22. If a man have committed a messing up worthy of death, and he be put to death, and you hang him on a tree;
 23. his body shall not remain all night on the tree, but you shall surely bury him the same day; for he who is hanged is accursed of God; that you don’t defile your land which Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 22

  1. You shall not check it out your brother’s ox or his sheep slide astray, and hide yourself from them: you shall surely bring them again to your brother.
  2. If your brother isn’t near to you, or if you don’t get it him, then you shall bring it home to your house, and it shall be with you until your brother seek after it, and you shall restore it to him.
  3. So you shall do with his donkey; and so you shall do with his garment; and so you shall do with every lost thing of your brother’s, which he has lost, and you have found: you may not hide yourself.
  4. You shall not check it out your brother’s donkey or his ox fallen down by the way, and hide yourself from them: you shall surely help out him to lift them up again.
  5. A woman shall not wear men’s clothing, neither shall a man put on women’s clothing; for whoever does these things is an abomination to Yahweh your God.
  6. If a bird’s nest chance to be before you in the way, in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs, and the hen sitting on the young, or on the eggs, you shall not grab the hen with the young:
  7. you shall surely let the hen slide, but the young you may grab to yourself; that it may be well with you, and that you may prolong your days.
  8. When you put together a new house, then you shall create a battlement for your roof, that you don’t bring blood on your house, if any man fall from there.
  9. You shall not sow your vineyard with two kinds of seed, lest the whole fruit be forfeited, the seed which you have sown, and the increase of the vineyard.
 10. You shall not plow with an ox and a donkey together.
 11. You shall not wear a mixed stuff, wool and linen together.
 12. You shall create yourselves fringes on the four borders of your cloak, with which you cover yourself.
 13. If any man takes a wife, and goes in to her, and hates her,
 14. and accuses her of shameful things, and brings up an evil name on her, and says, “I took this woman, and when I came near to her, I didn’t find in her the tokens of virginity;”
 15. then shall the father of the young lady, and her mother, grab and bring forth the tokens of the young lady’s virginity to the elders of the city in the gate;
 16. and the young lady’s father shall tell the elders, “I gave my daughter to this man to wife, and he hates her;
 17. and check this out, he has accused her of shameful things, saying, ‘I didn’t find in your daughter the tokens of virginity;’ and yet these are the tokens of my daughter’s virginity.” They shall spread the cloth before the elders of the city.
 18. The elders of that city shall grab the man and chastise him;
 19. and they shall fine him one hundred shekels of silver, and hook it up them to the father of the young lady, cuz he has brought up an evil name on a virgin of Israel: and she shall be his wife; he may not put her away all his days.
 20. But if this thing be true, that the tokens of virginity were not found in the young lady;
 21. then they shall bring out the young lady to the door of her father’s house, and the men of her city shall stone her to death with stones, cuz she has done folly in Israel, to play the prostitute in her father’s house: so you shall put away the evil from the midst of you.
 22. If a man be found lying with a woman married to a husband, then they shall both of them die, the man who lay with the woman, and the woman: so you shall put away the evil from Israel.
 23. If there is a young lady who is a virgin pledged to be married to a husband, and a man find her in the city, and lie with her;
 24. then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city, and you shall stone them to death with stones; the lady, cuz she didn’t cry, being in the city; and the man, cuz he has humbled his neighbor’s wife: so you shall put away the evil from the midst of you.
 25. But if the man find the lady who is pledged to be married in the field, and the man force her, and lie with her; then the man only who lay with her shall die:
 26. but to the lady you shall do nothing; there is in the lady no messing up worthy of death: for as when a man rises against his neighbor, and kills him, even so is this matter;
 27. for he found her in the field, the pledged to be married lady cried, and there was none to rescue her.
 28. If a man find a lady who is a virgin, who is not pledged to be married, and lay hold on her, and lie with her, and they be found;
 29. then the man who lay with her shall hook it up to the lady’s father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife, cuz he has humbled her; he may not put her away all his days.
 30. A man shall not grab his father’s wife, and shall not uncover his father’s skirt.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 23

  1. He who is wounded in the stones, or has his privy member cut off, shall not enter into the assembly of Yahweh.
  2. A bastard shall not enter into the assembly of Yahweh; even to the tenth generation shall none of his enter into the assembly of Yahweh.
  3. An Ammonite or a Moabite shall not enter into the assembly of Yahweh; even to the tenth generation shall none belonging to them enter into the assembly of Yahweh forever:
  4. cuz they didn’t meet you with bread and with water in the way, when you came forth out of Egypt, and cuz they hired against you Balaam the son of Beor from Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse you.
  5. Nevertheless Yahweh your God wouldn’t listen up to Balaam; but Yahweh your God turned the curse into a blessing to you, cuz Yahweh your God loved you.
  6. You shall not seek their peace nor their prosperity all your days forever.
  7. You shall not abhor an Edomite; for he is your brother: you shall not abhor an Egyptian, cuz you lived as a foreigner in his land.
  8. The children of the third generation who are born to them shall enter into the assembly of Yahweh.
  9. When you slide forth in camp against your enemies, then you shall keep yourselves from every evil thing.
 10. If there is among you any man who is not clean by reason of that which happens him by night, then shall he slide outside of the camp. He shall not come through within the camp:
 11. but it shall be, when evening comes on, he shall bathe himself in water; and when the sun is down, he shall come through within the camp.
 12. You shall have a place also outside of the camp, where you shall slide forth abroad:
 13. and you shall have a paddle among your weapons; and it shall be, when you sit down abroad, you shall dig therewith, and shall turn back and cover that which comes from you:
 14. for Yahweh your God walks in the midst of your camp, to deliver you, and to hook it up up your enemies before you; so basically your camp shall be set apart, that he may not check it out an unclean thing in you, and turn away from you.
 15. You shall not deliver to his boss a helper who is escaped from his boss to you:
 16. he shall dwell with you, in the midst of you, in the place which he shall choose within one of your gates, where it pleases him best: you shall not oppress him.
 17. there shall be no prostitute of the daughters of Israel, neither shall there be a sodomite of the sons of Israel.
 18. You shall not bring the hire of a prostitute, or the wages of a dog, into the house of Yahweh your God for any vow: for even both these are an abomination to Yahweh your God.
 19. You shall not lend on interest to your brother; interest of money, interest of food, interest of anything that is lent on interest:
 20. to a foreigner you may lend on interest; but to your brother you shall not lend on interest, that Yahweh your God may bless you in all that you put your hand to, in the land where you slide in to possess it.
 21. When you shall vow a vow to Yahweh your God, you shall not be slack to pay it: for Yahweh your God will surely require it of you; and it would be messing up in you.
 22. But if you shall forbear to vow, it shall be no messing up in you.
 23. That which is gone out of your lips you shall observe and do; according as you have vowed to Yahweh your God, a freewill giving to God, which you have promised with your mouth.
 24. When you come through into your neighbor’s vineyard, then you may eat of grapes your fill at your own pleasure; but you shall not put any in your vessel.
 25. When you come through into your neighbor’s standing grain, then you may pluck the ears with your hand; but you shall not move a sickle to your neighbor’s standing grain.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 24

  1. When a man takes a wife, and marries her, then it shall be, if she find no favor in his eyes, cuz he has found some unseemly thing in her, that he shall write her a bill of divorce, and hook it up it in her hand, and send her out of his house.
  2. When she is departed out of his house, she may slide and be another man’s wife.
  3. If the latter husband can't stand her, and write her a bill of divorce, and hook it up it in her hand, and send her out of his house; or if the latter husband die, who took her to be his wife;
  4. her former husband, who sent her away, may not grab her again to be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that is abomination before Yahweh: and you shall not cause the land to messing up, which Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance.
  5. When a man takes a new wife, he shall not slide out in the army, neither shall he be assigned any business: he shall be free at home one year, and shall cheer his wife whom he has taken.
  6. No man shall grab the mill or the upper millstone to pledge; for he takes a life in pledge.
  7. If a man be found stealing any of his brothers of the children of Israel, and he deal with him as a helper, or sell him; then that thief shall die: so you shall put away the evil from the midst of you.
  8. grab heed in the plague of leprosy, that you observe diligently, and do according to all that the priests the Levites shall drop knowledge you: as I commanded them, so you shall observe to do.
  9. Remember what Yahweh your God did to Miriam, by the way as you came forth out of Egypt.
 10. When you do lend your neighbor any kind of loan, you shall not slide into his house to get his pledge.
 11. You shall stand outside, and the man to whom you do lend shall bring forth the pledge outside to you.
 12. If he be a broke man, you shall not sleep with his pledge;
 13. you shall surely restore to him the pledge when the sun goes down, that he may sleep in his garment, and bless you: and it shall be righteousness to you before Yahweh your God.
 14. You shall not oppress a hired helper who is broke and needy, whether he be of your brothers, or of your foreigners who are in your land within your gates:
 15. in his day you shall hook it up him his hire, neither shall the sun slide down on it; for he is broke, and sets his heart on it: lest he cry against you to Yahweh, and it be messing up to you.
 16. The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers: every man shall be put to death for his own messing up.
 17. You shall not deprive the foreigner, or the fatherless of justice, nor grab a widow’s clothing in pledge;
 18. but you shall remember that you were a bondservant in Egypt, and Yahweh your God redeemed you there: so basically I command you to do this thing.
 19. When you reap your harvest in your field, and have forgot a sheaf in the field, you shall not slide again to get it: it shall be for the foreigner, for the fatherless, and for the widow; that Yahweh your God may bless you in all the work of your hands.
 20. When you beat your olive tree, you shall not slide over the boughs again: it shall be for the foreigner, for the fatherless, and for the widow.
 21. When you harvest your vineyard, you shall not glean it after yourselves: it shall be for the foreigner, for the fatherless, and for the widow.
 22. You shall remember that you were a bondservant in the land of Egypt: so basically I command you to do this thing.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 25

  1. If there is a controversy between men, and they come through to judgment, and the judges judge them; then they shall justify the doing what's right, and condemn the wicked;
  2. and it shall be, if the wicked man be worthy to be beaten, that the judge shall cause him to lie down, and to be beaten before his face, according to his wickedness, by number.
  3. Forty stripes he may hook it up him, he shall not exceed; lest, if he should exceed, and beat him above these with a lot stripes, then your brother should seem vile to you.
  4. You shall not muzzle the ox when he treads out the grain.
  5. If brothers dwell together, and one of them die, and have no son, the wife of the dead shall not be married outside to a stranger: her husband’s brother shall slide in to her, and grab her to him as wife, and perform the duty of a husband’s brother to her.
  6. It shall be, that the firstborn whom she bears shall succeed in the name of his brother who is dead, that his name not be blotted out of Israel.
  7. If the man doesn’t want to grab his brother’s wife, then his brother’s wife shall slide up to the gate to the elders, and say, “My husband’s brother refuses to raise up to his brother a name in Israel; he will not perform the duty of a husband’s brother to me.”
  8. then the elders of his city shall call him, and spill the tea to him: and if he stand, and say, “I don’t want to grab her;”
  9. then his brother’s wife shall come through to him in the presence of the elders, and loose his shoe from off his foot, and spit in his face; and she shall answer and say, “So shall it be done to the man who does not put together up his brother’s house.”
 10. His name shall be called in Israel, The house of him who has his shoe untied.
 11. When men strive together one with another, and the wife of the one draws near to deliver her husband out of the hand of him who strikes him, and puts forth her hand, and takes him by the secrets;
 12. then you shall cut off her hand, your eye shall have no pity.
 13. You shall not have in your bag diverse weights, a major and a tiny.
 14. You shall not have in your house diverse measures, a major and a tiny.
 15. You shall have a perfect and just weight. You shall have a perfect and just measure, that your days may be long in the land which Yahweh your God gives you.
 16. For all who do such things, all who do unrighteously, are an abomination to Yahweh your God.
 17. Remember what Amalek did to you by the way as you came forth out of Egypt;
 18. how he met you by the way, and struck the hindmost of you, all who were feeble behind you, when you were faint and weary; and he didn’t fear God.
 19. so basically it shall be, when Yahweh your God has given you rest from all your enemies all around, in the land which Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance to possess it, that you shall blot out the memory of Amalek from under the sky; you shall not forget.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 26

  1. It shall be, when you have come through in to the land which Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance, and possess it, and dwell therein,
  2. that you shall grab of the first of all the fruit of the ground, which you shall bring in from your land that Yahweh your God gives you; and you shall put it in a basket, and shall slide to the place which Yahweh your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
  3. You shall come through to the priest who shall be in those days, and tell him, “I profess this day to Yahweh your God, that I am come through to the land which Yahweh swore to our fathers to hook it up us.”
  4. The priest shall grab the basket out of your hand, and set it down before the prayer spot of Yahweh your God.
  5. You shall answer and say before Yahweh your God, “A Syrian ready to perish was my father; and he went down into Egypt, and lived there, not much in number; and he became there a nation, major, mighty, and populous.
  6. The Egyptians dealt ill with us, and afflicted us, and laid on us hard bondage:
  7. and we cried to Yahweh, the God of our fathers, and Yahweh heard our voice, and checked out our affliction, and our toil, and our oppression;
  8. and Yahweh brought us forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with major terror, and with signs, and with wonders;
  9. and he has brought us into this place, and has given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
 10. now, check this out, I have brought the first of the fruit of the ground, which you, Yahweh, have given me.” You shall set it down before Yahweh your God, and giving props before Yahweh your God.
 11. You shall be hyped in all the fire which Yahweh your God has given to you, and to your house, you, and the Levite, and the foreigner who is in the midst of you.
 12. When you have made an end of tithing all the tithe of your increase in the third year, which is the year of tithing, then you shall hook it up it to the Levite, to the foreigner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, that they may eat within your gates, and be filled.
 13. You shall say before Yahweh your God, “I have put away the set apart things out of my house, and also have given them to the Levite, and to the foreigner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all your commandment which you have commanded me: I have not transgressed any of your commandments, neither have I forgotten them:
 14. I have not eaten of it in my mourning, neither have I put away of it, being unclean, nor given of it for the dead: I have listened to the voice of Yahweh my God; I have done according to all that you have commanded me.
 15. Look down from your set apart habitation, from heaven, and bless your people Israel, and the ground which you have given us, as you swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.”
 16. This day Yahweh your God commands you to do these statutes and ordinances: you shall so basically keep and do them with all your heart, and with all your soul.
 17. You have declared Yahweh this day to be your God, and that you would walk in his ways, and keep his statutes, and his commandments, and his ordinances, and listen up to his voice:
 18. and Yahweh has declared you this day to be a people for his own possession, as he has promised you, and that you should keep all his commandments;
 19. and to create you high above all nations that he has made, in praise, and in name, and in honor; and that you may be a set apart people to Yahweh your God, as he has spoken.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 27

  1. Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, “Keep all the commandment which I command you this day.
  2. It shall be on the day when you shall pass over the Jordan to the land which Yahweh your God gives you, that you shall set yourself up major stones, and plaster them with plaster:
  3. and you shall write on them all the words of this law, when you have passed over; that you may slide in to the land which Yahweh your God gives you, a land flowing with milk and honey, as Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has promised you.
  4. It shall be, when you have passed over the Jordan, that you shall set up these stones, which I command you this day, in Mount Ebal, and you shall plaster them with plaster.
  5. there you shall put together an prayer spot to Yahweh your God, an prayer spot of stones: you shall lift up no iron on them.
  6. You shall put together the prayer spot of Yahweh your God of uncut stones; and you shall offer burnt offerings thereon to Yahweh your God:
  7. and you shall giving it up peace offerings, and shall eat there; and you shall be hyped before Yahweh your God.
  8. You shall write on the stones all the words of this law hella plainly.”
  9. Moses and the priests the Levites spoke to all Israel, saying, “Keep silence, and listen up, Israel: this day you have become the people of Yahweh your God.
 10. You shall so basically obey the voice of Yahweh your God, and do his commandments and his statutes, which I command you this day.”
 11. Moses commanded the people the same day, saying,
 12. “These shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people, when you have passed over the Jordan: Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Joseph, and Benjamin.
 13. These shall stand on Mount Ebal for the curse: Reuben, Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
 14. The Levites shall answer, and tell all the men of Israel with a loud voice,
 15. ‘Cursed is the man who makes an engraved or molten image, an abomination to Yahweh, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and sets it up in secret.’ All the people shall answer and say, ‘facts.’
 16. ‘Cursed is he who sets light by his father or his mother.’ All the people shall say, ‘facts.’
 17. ‘Cursed is he who removes his neighbor’s landmark.’ All the people shall say, ‘facts.’
 18. ‘Cursed is he who makes the blind to wander out of the way.’ All the people shall say, ‘facts.’
 19. ‘Cursed is he who the foreigner, fatherless, and widow of justice.’ All the people shall say, ‘facts.’
 20. ‘Cursed is he who lies with his father’s wife, cuz he has uncovered his father’s skirt.’ All the people shall say, ‘facts.’
 21. ‘Cursed is he who lies with any kind of animal.’ All the people shall say, ‘facts.’
 22. ‘Cursed is he who lies with his sister, the daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother.’ All the people shall say, ‘facts.’
 23. ‘Cursed is he who lies with his mother-in-law.’ All the people shall say, ‘facts.’
 24. ‘Cursed is he who strikes his neighbor in secret.’ All the people shall say, ‘facts.’
 25. ‘Cursed is he who takes a bribe to kill an innocent person.’ All the people shall say, ‘facts.’
 26. ‘Cursed is he who doesn’t confirm the words of this law to do them.’ All the people shall say, ‘facts.’”

# Deuteronomy Chapter 28

  1. It shall happen, if you shall listen up diligently to the voice of Yahweh your God, to observe to do all his commandments which I command you this day, that Yahweh your God will set you on high above all the nations of the earth:
  2. and all these blessings shall come through on you, and overtake you, if you shall listen up to the voice of Yahweh your God.
  3. You shall be blessed up in the city, and you shall be blessed up in the field.
  4. You shall be blessed up in the fruit of your body, the fruit of your ground, the fruit of your animals, the increase of your livestock, and the young of your flock.
  5. Your basket and your kneading trough shall be blessed up.
  6. You shall be blessed up when you come through in, and you shall be blessed up when you slide out.
  7. Yahweh will cause your enemies who rise up against you to be struck before you. They will come through out against you one way, and will flee before you seven ways.
  8. Yahweh will command the blessing on you in your barns, and in all that you put your hand to; and he will bless you in the land which Yahweh your God gives you.
  9. Yahweh will establish you for a set apart people to himself, as he has sworn to you; if you shall keep the commandments of Yahweh your God, and walk in his ways.
 10. All the peoples of the earth shall check it out that you are called by the name of Yahweh; and they shall be scared of you.
 11. Yahweh will create you plenteous for fire, in the fruit of your body, and in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your ground, in the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers to hook it up you.
 12. Yahweh will open to you his fire treasure in the sky, to hook it up the rain of your land in its season, and to bless all the work of your hand: and you shall lend to a lot nations, and you shall not borrow.
 13. Yahweh will create you the head, and not the tail; and you shall be above only, and you shall not be beneath; if you shall listen up to the commandments of Yahweh your God, which I command you this day, to observe and to do,
 14. and shall not turn aside from any of the words which I command you this day, to the right hand, or to the left, to slide after other gods to help out them.
 15. But it shall come through to pass, if you will not listen up to the voice of Yahweh your God, to observe to do all his commandments and his statutes which I command you this day, that all these curses shall come through on you, and overtake you.
 16. You shall be cursed in the city, and you shall be cursed in the field.
 17. Your basket and your kneading trough shall be cursed.
 18. The fruit of your body, the fruit of your ground, the increase of your livestock, and the young of your flock shall be cursed.
 19. You shall be cursed when you come through in, and you shall be cursed when you slide out.
 20. Yahweh will send on you cursing, confusion, and rebuke, in all that you put your hand to do, until you are destroyed, and until you perish quickly; cuz of the evil of your doings, by which you have forsaken me.
 21. Yahweh will create the pestilence cling to you, until he has consumed you from off the land, where you slide in to possess it.
 22. Yahweh will strike you with consumption, and with fever, and with inflammation, and with fiery heat, and with the sword, and with blight, and with mildew; and they shall pursue you until you perish.
 23. Your sky that is over your head shall be brass, and the earth that is under you shall be iron.
 24. Yahweh will create the rain of your land powder and dust: from the sky shall it come through down on you, until you are destroyed.
 25. Yahweh will cause you to be struck before your enemies; you shall slide out one way against them, and shall flee seven ways before them: and you shall be tossed back and forth among all the kingdoms of the earth.
 26. Your dead body shall be food to all birds of the sky, and to the animals of the earth; and there shall be none to frighten them away.
 27. Yahweh will strike you with the boil of Egypt, and with the tumors, and with the scurvy, and with the itch, of which you can not be healed.
 28. Yahweh will strike you with madness, and with blindness, and with astonishment of heart;
 29. and you shall grope at noonday, as the blind gropes in darkness, and you shall not prosper in your ways: and you shall be only oppressed and robbed always, and there shall be none to rescue you.
 30. You shall betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her: you shall put together a house, and you shall not dwell therein: you shall plant a vineyard, and shall not use its fruit.
 31. Your ox shall be slain before your eyes, and you shall not eat of it: your donkey shall be violently taken away from before your face, and shall not be restored to you: your sheep shall be given to your enemies, and you shall have none to rescue you.
 32. Your sons and your daughters shall be given to another people; and your eyes shall look, and fail with longing for them all the day: and there shall be nothing in the power of your hand.
 33. The fruit of your ground, and all your labors, shall a nation which you don’t get it eat up; and you shall be only oppressed and crushed always;
 34. so that you shall be mad for the sight of your eyes which you shall check it out.
 35. Yahweh will strike you in the knees, and in the legs, with a sore boil, of which you can not be healed, from the sole of your foot to the crown of your head.
 36. Yahweh will bring you, and your ruler whom you shall set over you, to a nation that you have not known, you nor your fathers; and there you shall help out other gods, wood and stone.
 37. You shall become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword, among all the peoples where Yahweh shall show the way you away.
 38. You shall carry much seed out into the field, and shall gather little in; for the locust shall consume it.
 39. You shall plant vineyards and dress them, but you shall neither drink of the wine, nor harvest; for the worm shall eat them.
 40. You shall have olive trees throughout all your borders, but you shall not anoint yourself with the oil; for your olives shall drop off.
 41. You shall father sons and daughters, but they shall not be yours; for they shall slide into captivity.
 42. All your trees and the fruit of your ground shall the locust possess.
 43. The foreigner who is in the midst of you shall mount up above you higher and higher; and you shall come through down lower and lower.
 44. He shall lend to you, and you shall not lend to him: he shall be the head, and you shall be the tail.
 45. All these curses shall come through on you, and shall pursue you, and overtake you, until you are destroyed; cuz you didn’t listen up to the voice of Yahweh your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which he commanded you:
 46. and they shall be on you for a sign and for a wonder, and on your seed forever.
 47. cuz you didn’t help out Yahweh your God with joyfulness, and with gladness of heart, by reason of the abundance of all things;
 48. so basically you shall help out your enemies whom Yahweh shall send against you, in hunger, and in thirst, and in nakedness, and in want of all things: and he shall put a yoke of iron on your neck, until he has destroyed you.
 49. Yahweh will bring a nation against you from far, from the end of the earth, as the eagle flies; a nation whose language you shall not understand;
 50. a nation of fierce facial expressions, that shall not respect the person of the old, nor show favor to the young,
 51. and shall eat the fruit of your livestock, and the fruit of your ground, until you are destroyed; that also shall not leave you grain, new wine, or oil, the increase of your livestock, or the young of your flock, until they have caused you to perish.
 52. They shall besiege you in all your gates, until your high and fortified walls come through down, in which you trusted, throughout all your land; and they shall besiege you in all your gates throughout all your land, which Yahweh your God has given you.
 53. You shall eat the fruit of your own body, the flesh of your sons and of your daughters, whom Yahweh your God has given you, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemies shall distress you.
 54. The man who is tender among you, and hella delicate, his eye shall be evil toward his brother, and toward the wife of his bosom, and toward the remnant of his children whom he has remaining;
 55. so that he will not hook it up to any of them of the flesh of his children whom he shall eat, cuz he has nothing left him, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress you in all your gates.
 56. The tender and delicate woman among you, who would not adventure to set the sole of her foot on the ground for delicateness and tenderness, her eye shall be evil toward the husband of her bosom, and toward her son, and toward her daughter,
 57. and toward her young one who comes out from between her feet, and toward her children whom she shall bear; for she shall eat them for want of all things secretly, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress you in your gates.
 58. If you will not observe to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may fear this glorious and fearful name, YAHWEH YOUR GOD;
 59. then Yahweh will create your plagues wonderful, and the plagues of your seed, even major plagues, and of long continuance, and severe sicknesses, and of long continuance.
 60. He will bring on you again all the diseases of Egypt, which you were scared of; and they shall cling to you.
 61. Also every sickness, and every plague, which is not written in the book of this law, Yahweh will bring them on you, until you are destroyed.
 62. You shall be left not much in number, whereas you were as the stars of the sky for multitude; cuz you didn’t listen up to the voice of Yahweh your God.
 63. It shall happen that as Yahweh rejoiced over you to do you fire, and to multiply you, so Yahweh will be hyped over you to cause you to perish, and to tear down you; and you shall be plucked from off the land where you slide in to possess it.
 64. Yahweh will scatter you among all peoples, from the one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth; and there you shall help out other gods, which you have not known, you nor your fathers, even wood and stone.
 65. Among these nations you shall find no ease, and there shall be no rest for the sole of your foot: but Yahweh will hook it up you there a trembling heart, and failing of eyes, and pining of soul;
 66. and your life shall hang in doubt before you; and you shall fear night and day, and shall have no assurance of your life.
 67. In the morning you shall say, “I wish it were evening!” and at evening you shall say, “I wish it were morning!” for the fear of your heart which you shall fear, and for the sight of your eyes which you shall check it out.
 68. Yahweh will bring you into Egypt again with ships, by the way of which I said to you, You shall check it out it no more again: and there you shall sell yourselves to your enemies for bondservants and for bondmaids, and no man shall buy you.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 29

  1. These are the words of the God's promise which Yahweh commanded Moses to create with the children of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the God's promise which he made with them in Horeb.
  2. Moses called to all Israel, and said to them, You have seen all that Yahweh did before your eyes in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land;
  3. the major trials which your eyes checked out, the signs, and those major wonders:
  4. but Yahweh has not given you a heart to get it, and eyes to check it out, and ears to hear, to this day.
  5. I have led you forty years in the wilderness: your clothes have not grown old on you, and your shoes have not grown old on your feet.
  6. You have not eaten bread, neither have you drunk wine or built different drink; that you may get it that I am Yahweh your God.
  7. When you came to this place, Sihon the ruler of Heshbon, and Og the ruler of Bashan, came out against us to battle, and we struck them:
  8. and we took their land, and gave it for an inheritance to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of the Manassites.
  9. Keep so basically the words of this God's promise, and do them, that you may prosper in all that you do.
 10. You stand this day all of you before Yahweh your God; your heads, your tribes, your elders, and your officers, even all the men of Israel,
 11. your little ones, your wives, and your foreigner who is in the midst of your camps, from the one who cuts your wood to the one who draws your water;
 12. that you may enter into the God's promise of Yahweh your God, and into his oath, which Yahweh your God makes with you this day;
 13. that he may establish you this day to himself for a people, and that he may be to you a God, as he spoke to you, and as he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
 14. Neither with you only do I create this God's promise and this oath,
 15. but with him who stands here with us this day before Yahweh our God, and also with him who is not here with us this day
 16. (for you get it how we lived in the land of Egypt, and how we came through the midst of the nations through which you passed;
 17. and you have seen their abominations, and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them);
 18. lest there should be among you man, or woman, or family, or tribe, whose heart turns away this day from Yahweh our God, to slide to help out the gods of those nations; lest there should be among you a root that bears gall and wormwood;
 19. and it happen, when he hears the words of this curse, that he bless himself in his heart, saying, “I shall have peace, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart, to tear down the moist with the dry.”
 20. Yahweh will not pardon him, but then the anger of Yahweh and his jealousy will smoke against that man, and all the curse that is written in this book shall lie on him, and Yahweh will blot out his name from under the sky.
 21. Yahweh will set him apart to evil out of all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the God's promise that is written in this book of the law.
 22. The generation to come through, your children who shall rise up after you, and the foreigner who shall come through from a far land, shall say, when they check it out the plagues of that land, and the sicknesses with which Yahweh has made it sick;
 23. and that the whole land of it is sulfur, salt, and burning, that it is not sown, nor bears, nor any grass grows therein, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim, which Yahweh overthrew in his anger, and in his wrath:
 24. even all the nations shall say, “Why has Yahweh done thus to this land? What does the heat of this major anger mean?”
 25. then men shall say, “cuz they forsook the God's promise of Yahweh, the God of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them forth out of the land of Egypt,
 26. and went and served other gods, and worshiped them, gods that they didn’t get it, and that he had not given to them:
 27. so basically the anger of Yahweh was kindled against this land, to bring on it all the curse that is written in this book;
 28. and Yahweh rooted them out of their land in anger, and in wrath, and in major indignation, and cast them into another land, as at this day.”
 29. The secret things belong to Yahweh our God; but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 30

  1. It shall happen, when all these things have come through on you, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before you, and you shall call them to mind among all the nations, where Yahweh your God has driven you,
  2. and shall return to Yahweh your God, and shall obey his voice according to all that I command you this day, you and your children, with all your heart, and with all your soul;
  3. that then Yahweh your God will turn your captivity, and have compassion on you, and will return and gather you from all the peoples, where Yahweh your God has scattered you.
  4. If your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of the heavens, from there will Yahweh your God gather you, and from there he will bring you back:
  5. and Yahweh your God will bring you into the land which your fathers possessed, and you shall possess it; and he will do you fire, and multiply you above your fathers.
  6. Yahweh your God will circumcise your heart, and the heart of your seed, to show love Yahweh your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, that you may live.
  7. Yahweh your God will put all these curses on your enemies, and on those who can't stand you, who persecuted you.
  8. You shall return and obey the voice of Yahweh, and do all his commandments which I command you this day.
  9. Yahweh your God will create you plenteous in all the work of your hand, in the fruit of your body, and in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your ground, for fire: for Yahweh will again be hyped over you for fire, as he rejoiced over your fathers;
 10. if you shall obey the voice of Yahweh your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which are written in this book of the law; if you turn to Yahweh your God with all your heart, and with all your soul.
 11. For this commandment which I command you this day, it is not too hard for you, neither is it far off.
 12. It is not in heaven, that you should say, “Who shall slide up for us to heaven, and bring it to us, and create us to hear it, that we may do it?”
 13. Neither is it beyond the sea, that you should say, “Who shall slide over the sea for us, and bring it to us, and create us to hear it, that we may do it?”
 14. But the word is hella near to you, in your mouth, and in your heart, that you may do it.
 15. check this out, I have set before you this day life and fire, and death and evil;
 16. in that I command you this day to show love Yahweh your God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments and his statutes and his ordinances, that you may live and multiply, and that Yahweh your God may bless you in the land where you slide in to possess it.
 17. But if your heart turns away, and you will not hear, but shall be drawn away, and giving props other gods, and help out them;
 18. I denounce to you this day, that you shall surely perish; you shall not prolong your days in the land, where you pass over the Jordan to slide in to possess it.
 19. I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that I have set before you life and death, the blessing and the curse: so basically choose life, that you may live, you and your seed;
 20. to show love Yahweh your God, to obey his voice, and to cling to him; for he is your life, and the length of your days; that you may dwell in the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to hook it up them.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 31

  1. Moses went and spoke these words to all Israel.
  2. He said to them, “I am one hundred twenty years old this day; I can no more slide out and come through in: and Yahweh has said to me, ‘You shall not slide over this Jordan.’
  3. Yahweh your God, he will slide over before you; he will tear down these nations from before you, and you shall dispossess them. Joshua shall slide over before you, as Yahweh has spoken.
  4. Yahweh will do to them as he did to Sihon and to Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land; whom he destroyed.
  5. Yahweh will deliver them up before you, and you shall do to them according to all the commandment which I have commanded you.
  6. Be built different and courageous, don’t be scared, nor be scared of them: for Yahweh your God, he it is who does slide with you; he will not fail you, nor forsake you.”
  7. Moses called to Joshua, and said to him in the sight of all Israel, “Be built different and courageous: for you shall slide with this people into the land which Yahweh has sworn to their fathers to hook it up them; and you shall cause them to inherit it.
  8. Yahweh, he it is who does slide before you; he will be with you, he will not fail you, neither forsake you: don’t be scared, neither be dismayed.”
  9. Moses wrote this law, and delivered it to the priests the sons of Levi, who bore the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh, and to all the elders of Israel.
 10. Moses commanded them, saying, “At the end of every seven years, in the set time of the year of release, in the feast of tents,
 11. when all Israel has come through to appear before Yahweh your God in the place which he shall choose, you shall read this law before all Israel in their hearing.
 12. Assemble the people, the men and the women and the little ones, and your foreigner who is within your gates, that they may hear, and that they may pick up, and fear Yahweh your God, and observe to do all the words of this law;
 13. and that their children, who have not known, may hear, and pick up to fear Yahweh your God, as long as you live in the land where you slide over the Jordan to possess it.”
 14. Yahweh said to Moses, “check this out, your days approach that you must die: call Joshua, and present yourselves in the Tent of Meeting, that I may commission him.” Moses and Joshua went, and presented themselves in the Tent of Meeting.
 15. Yahweh appeared in the Tent in a pillar of cloud: and the pillar of cloud stood over the door of the Tent.
 16. Yahweh said to Moses, “check this out, you shall sleep with your fathers; and this people will rise up, and play the prostitute after the strange gods of the land, where they slide to be among them, and will forsake me, and break my God's promise which I have made with them.
 17. then my anger shall be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them, and I will hide my face from them, and they shall be devoured, and a lot evils and troubles shall come through on them; so that they will say in that day, ‘Haven’t these evils come through on us cuz our God is not among us?’
 18. I will surely hide my face in that day for all the evil which they shall have worked, in that they are turned to other gods.
 19. “now so basically write this song for yourselves, and drop knowledge it to the children of Israel: put it in their mouths, that this song may be a witness for me against the children of Israel.
 20. For when I shall have brought them into the land which I swore to their fathers, flowing with milk and honey, and they shall have eaten and filled themselves, and grown fat; then will they turn to other gods, and help out them, and despise me, and break my God's promise.
 21. It shall happen, when a lot evils and troubles have come through on them, that this song shall testify before them as a witness; for it shall not be forgotten out of the mouths of their seed: for I get it their imagination which they frame this day, before I have brought them into the land which I swore.”
 22. So Moses wrote this song the same day, and taught it the children of Israel.
 23. He commissioned Joshua the son of Nun, and said, “Be built different and courageous; for you shall bring the children of Israel into the land which I swore to them: and I will be with you.”
 24. It happened, when Moses had made an end of writing the words of this law in a book, until they were finished,
 25. that Moses commanded the Levites, who bore the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh, saying,
 26. “grab this book of the law, and put it by the side of the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh your God, that it may be there for a witness against you.
 27. For I get it your rebellion, and your stiff neck: check this out, while I am yet alive with you this day, you have been rebellious against Yahweh; and how much more after my death?
 28. Assemble to me all the elders of your tribes, and your officers, that I may spill the tea these words in their ears, and call heaven and earth to witness against them.
 29. For I get it that after my death you will utterly corrupt yourselves, and turn aside from the way which I have commanded you; and evil will happen to you in the latter days; cuz you will do that which is evil in the sight of Yahweh, to provoke him to anger through the work of your hands.”
 30. Moses spoke in the ears of all the assembly of Israel the words of this song, until they were finished.

# Deuteronomy Chapter 32

  1. hook it up ear, you heavens, and I will spill the tea. Let the earth hear the words of my mouth.
  2. My doctrine shall drop as the rain. My speech shall condense as the dew, as the tiny rain on the tender grass, as the showers on the herb.
  3. For I will proclaim the name of Yahweh. Ascribe greatness to our God!
  4. The Rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice: a God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and right is he.
  5. They have dealt corruptly with him. They are not his children, cuz of their defect. They are a perverse and crooked generation.
  6. Do you thus requite Yahweh, dumb people and unwise? Isn’t he your father who has bought you? He has made you, and established you.
  7. Remember the days of old. Consider the years of a lot generations. Ask your father, and he will show you; your elders, and they will tell you.
  8. When the Most High gave to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the children of men, he set the bounds of the peoples according to the number of the children of Israel.
  9. For Yahweh’s portion is his people. Jacob is the lot of his inheritance.
 10. He found him in a desert land, in the waste howling wilderness. He surrounded him. He cared for him. He kept him as the apple of his eye.
 11. As an eagle that stirs up her nest, that flutters over her young, he spread abroad his wings, he took them, he bore them on his feathers.
 12. Yahweh alone led him. there was no foreign god with him.
 13. He made him ride on the high places of the earth. He ate the increase of the field. He caused him to suck honey out of the rock, oil out of the flinty rock;
 14. Butter of the herd, and milk of the flock, with fat of lambs, rams of the breed of Bashan, and goats, with the finest of the wheat. Of the blood of the grape you drank wine.
 15. But Jeshurun grew fat, and kicked. You have grown fat. You have grown thick. You have become sleek. then he forsook God who made him, and lightly esteemed the Rock of his getting saved.
 16. They moved him to jealousy with strange gods. They provoked him to anger with abominations.
 17. They sacrificed to demons, not God, to gods that they didn’t get it, to new gods that came up recently, which your fathers didn’t dread.
 18. Of the Rock who became your father, you are unmindful, and have forgotten God who gave you birth.
 19. Yahweh checked out and abhorred, cuz of the provocation of his sons and his daughters.
 20. He said, “I will hide my face from them. I will check it out what their end shall be; for they are a hella perverse generation, children in whom is no faithfulness.
 21. They have moved me to jealousy with that which is not God. They have provoked me to anger with their vanities. I will move them to jealousy with those who are not a people. I will provoke them to anger with a dumb nation.
 22. For a fire is kindled in my anger, Burns to the lowest Sheol, Devours the earth with its increase, and sets the foundations of the mountains on fire.
 23. “I will heap evils on them. I will spend my arrows on them.
 24. They shall be wasted with hunger, and devoured with burning heat and bitter destruction. I will send the teeth of animals on them, With the poison of crawling things of the dust.
 25. Outside the sword shall bereave, and in the rooms, terror; on both young man and virgin, The nursing infant with the gray-haired man.
 26. I said, I would scatter them afar. I would create their memory to cease from among men;
 27. were it not that I feared the provocation of the enemy, lest their adversaries should judge wrongly, lest they should say, ‘Our hand is exalted, Yahweh has not done all this.’”
 28. For they are a nation void of counsel. there is no understanding in them.
 29. Oh that they were smart, that they understood this, that they would consider their latter end!
 30. How could one chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, unless their Rock had sold them, and Yahweh had delivered them up?
 31. For their rock is not as our Rock, even our enemies themselves being judges.
 32. For their vine is of the vine of Sodom, of the fields of Gomorrah. Their grapes are grapes of gall, Their clusters are bitter.
 33. Their wine is the poison of serpents, The cruel venom of asps.
 34. “Isn’t this laid up in store with me, sealed up among my treasures?
 35. Vengeance is mine, and recompense, at the time when their foot slides; for the day of their calamity is at hand. The things that are to come through on them shall create haste.”
 36. For Yahweh will judge his people, and have compassion on his servants, when he sees that their power is gone, there is none remaining, shut up or left at large.
 37. He will say, “Where are their gods, The rock in which they took refuge;
 38. Which ate the fat of their sacrifices, And drank the wine of their drink giving to God? Let them rise up and help out you! Let them be your protection.
 39. “check it out now that I, even I, am he, there is no god with me. I kill, and I create alive. I wound, and I heal. there is no one who can deliver out of my hand.
 40. For I lift up my hand to heaven, And say, As I live forever,
 41. if I whet my glittering sword, My hand grab hold on judgment; I will render vengeance to my adversaries, and will recompense those who can't stand me.
 42. I will create my arrows drunk with blood. My sword shall devour flesh with the blood of the slain and the captives, from the head of the leaders of the enemy.”
 43. be hyped, you nations, with his people, for he will avenge the blood of his servants. He will render vengeance to his adversaries, And will create expiation for his land, for his people.
 44. Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Joshua the son of Nun.
 45. Moses made an end of speaking all these words to all Israel;
 46. He said to them, “Set your heart to all the words which I testify to you this day, which you shall command your children to observe to do, all the words of this law.
 47. For it is no vain thing for you; cuz it is your life, and through this thing you shall prolong your days in the land, where you slide over the Jordan to possess it.”
 48. Yahweh spoke to Moses that same day, saying,
 49. “slide up into this mountain of Abarim, to Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, that is over against Jericho; and check it out the land of Canaan, which I hook it up to the children of Israel for a possession;
 50. and die on the mountain where you slide up, and be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother died on Mount Hor, and was gathered to his people:
 51. cuz you trespassed against me in the midst of the children of Israel at the waters of Meribah of Kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin; cuz you didn’t sanctify me in the midst of the children of Israel.
 52. For you shall check it out the land before you; but you shall not slide there into the land which I hook it up the children of Israel.”

# Deuteronomy Chapter 33

  1. This is the blessing, with which Moses the man of God blessed up the children of Israel before his death.
  2. He said, “Yahweh came from Sinai, And rose from Seir to them. He shone forth from Mount Paran. He came from the ten thousands of set apart ones. At his right hand was a fiery law for them.
  3. Yes, he loves the people. All his saints are in your hand. They sat down at your feet; each receives your words.
  4. Moses commanded us a law, An inheritance for the assembly of Jacob.
  5. He was ruler in Jeshurun, When the heads of the people were gathered, All the tribes of Israel together.
  6. “Let Reuben live, and not die; Nor let his men be not much.”
  7. This is for Judah. He said, “Hear, Yahweh, the voice of Judah. Bring him in to his people. With his hands he contended for himself. You shall be a help out against his adversaries.”
  8. Of Levi he said, “Your Thummim and your Urim are with your godly one, whom you proved at Massah, with whom you strove at the waters of Meribah;
  9. who said of his father, and of his mother, ‘I have not seen him;’ Neither did he acknowledge his brothers, Nor did he get it his own children: For they have observed your word, and keep your God's promise.
 10. They shall drop knowledge Jacob your ordinances, and Israel your law. They shall put incense before you, and whole burnt giving to God on your prayer spot.
 11. Yahweh, bless his substance. Accept the work of his hands. Strike through the hips of those who rise up against him, of those who can't stand him, that they not rise again.”
 12. Of Benjamin he said, “The beloved of Yahweh shall dwell in safety by him. He covers him all the day long. He dwells between his shoulders.”
 13. Of Joseph he said, “His land is blessed up by Yahweh, for the precious things of the heavens, for the dew, for the deep that couches beneath,
 14. for the precious things of the fruits of the sun, for the precious things of the growth of the moons,
 15. for the chief things of the ancient mountains, for the precious things of the everlasting hills,
 16. for the precious things of the earth and its fullness, the fire will of him who lived in the bush. Let this come through on the head of Joseph, on the crown of the head of him who was separate from his brothers.
 17. The firstborn of his herd, majesty is his. His horns are the horns of the wild ox. With them he shall push all of the peoples, to the ends of the earth: They are the ten thousands of Ephraim. They are the thousands of Manasseh.”
 18. Of Zebulun he said, “be hyped, Zebulun, in your going out; and Issachar, in your tents.
 19. They shall call the peoples to the mountain. there they will offer sacrifices of righteousness, for they shall draw out the abundance of the seas, the hidden treasures of the sand.”
 20. Of Gad he said, “He who enlarges Gad is blessed up. He dwells as a lioness, and tears the arm, yes, the crown of the head.
 21. He provided the first part for himself, for there was the lawgiver’s portion reserved. He came with the heads of the people. He executed the righteousness of Yahweh, His ordinances with Israel.”
 22. Of Dan he said, “Dan is a lion’s cub that leaps out of Bashan.”
 23. Of Naphtali he said, “Naphtali, satisfied with favor, full of the blessing of Yahweh, Possess the west and the south.”
 24. Of Asher he said, “Asher is blessed up with children. Let him be acceptable to his brothers. Let him dip his foot in oil.
 25. Your bars shall be iron and brass. As your days, so your strength will be.
 26. “there is none like God, Jeshurun, who rides on the heavens for your help out, In his excellency on the skies.
 27. The eternal God is your dwelling place. Underneath are the everlasting arms. He thrust out the enemy from before you, and said, ‘tear down!’
 28. Israel dwells in safety; the fountain of Jacob alone, In a land of grain and new wine. Yes, his heavens drop down dew.
 29. You are vibing, Israel. Who is like you, a people saved by Yahweh, the shield of your help out, the sword of your excellency! Your enemies shall submit themselves to you. You shall tread on their high places.”

# Deuteronomy Chapter 34

  1. Moses went up from the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, that is over against Jericho. Yahweh showed him all the land of Gilead, to Dan,
  2. and all Naphtali, and the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, and all the land of Judah, to the hinder sea,
  3. and the South, and the Plain of the valley of Jericho the city of palm trees, to Zoar.
  4. Yahweh said to him, “This is the land which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, ‘I will hook it up it to your seed.’ I have caused you to check it out it with your eyes, but you shall not slide over there.”
  5. So Moses the helper of Yahweh died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of Yahweh.
  6. He buried him in the valley in the land of Moab over against Beth Peor: but no man knows of his tomb to this day.
  7. Moses was one hundred twenty years old when he died: his eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated.
  8. The children of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days: so the days of weeping in the mourning for Moses were ended.
  9. Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom; for Moses had laid his hands on him: and the children of Israel listened to him, and did as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 10. there has not arisen a God's messenger since in Israel like Moses, whom Yahweh knew face to face,
 11. in all the signs and the wonders, which Yahweh sent him to do in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land,
 12. and in all the mighty hand, and in all the major terror, which Moses worked in the sight of all Israel.


ECCLESIASTES
------------

# Ecclesiastes Chapter 1

  1. The words of the Preacher, the son of David, ruler in Jerusalem:
  2. “Vanity of vanities,” says the Preacher; “Vanity of vanities, all is vanity.”
  3. What does man gain from all his labor in which he labors under the sun?
  4. One generation goes, and another generation comes; but the earth remains forever.
  5. The sun also rises, and the sun goes down, and hurries to its place where it rises.
  6. The wind goes toward the south, and turns around to the north. It turns around continually as it goes, and the wind returns again to its courses.
  7. All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. To the place where the rivers flow, there they flow again.
  8. All things are full of weariness beyond uttering. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.
  9. That which has been is that which shall be; and that which has been done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun.
 10. Is there a thing of which it may be said, “check this out, this is new?” It has been long ago, in the ages which were before us.
 11. there is no memory of the former; neither shall there be any memory of the latter that are to come through, among those that shall come through after.
 12. I, the Preacher, was ruler over Israel in Jerusalem.
 13. I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under the sky. It is a heavy burden that God has given to the sons of men to be afflicted with.
 14. I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and check this out, all is vanity and a chasing after wind.
 15. That which is crooked can’t be made straight; and that which is lacking can’t be counted.
 16. I said to myself, “check this out, I have obtained for myself major wisdom above all who were before me in Jerusalem. Yes, my heart has had major experience of wisdom and knowledge.”
 17. I applied my heart to get it wisdom, and to get it madness and folly. I perceived that this also was a chasing after wind.
 18. For in much wisdom is much grief; and he who increases knowledge increases feeling down.

# Ecclesiastes Chapter 2

  1. I said in my heart, “come through now, I will test you with mirth: so basically enjoy pleasure;” and check this out, this also was vanity.
  2. I said of laughter, “It is foolishness;” and of mirth, “What does it accomplish?”
  3. I searched in my heart how to cheer my flesh with wine, my heart yet guiding me with wisdom, and how to lay hold of folly, until I might check it out what it was fire for the sons of men that they should do under heaven all the days of their lives.
  4. I made myself major works. I built myself houses. I planted myself vineyards.
  5. I made myself gardens and parks, and I planted trees in them of all kinds of fruit.
  6. I made myself pools of water, to water from it the forest where trees were reared.
  7. I bought male servants and female servants, and had servants born in my house. I also had major possessions of herds and flocks, above all who were before me in Jerusalem;
  8. I also gathered silver and gold for myself, and the treasure of kings and of the provinces. I got myself male and female singers, and the delights of the sons of men—musical instruments, and that of all sorts.
  9. So I was major, and increased more than all who were before me in Jerusalem. My wisdom also remained with me.
 10. Whatever my eyes desired, I didn’t keep from them. I didn’t withhold my heart from any joy, for my heart rejoiced cuz of all my labor, and this was my portion from all my labor.
 11. then I looked at all the works that my hands had worked, and at the labor that I had labored to do; and check this out, all was vanity and a chasing after wind, and there was no profit under the sun.
 12. I turned myself to consider wisdom, madness, and folly: for what can the ruler’s successor do? Just that which has been done long ago.
 13. then I checked out that wisdom excels folly, as far as light excels darkness.
 14. The smart man’s eyes are in his head, and the fool walks in darkness—and yet I perceived that one event happens to them all.
 15. then I said in my heart, “As it happens to the fool, so will it happen even to me; and why was I then more smart?” then I said in my heart that this also is vanity.
 16. For of the smart man, even as of the fool, there is no memory for ever, since in the days to come through all will have been long forgotten. facts, the smart man must die just like the fool!
 17. So I hated life, cuz the work that is worked under the sun was grievous to me; for all is vanity and a chasing after wind.
 18. I hated all my labor in which I labored under the sun, cuz I must leave it to the man who comes after me.
 19. Who knows whether he will be a smart man or a fool? Yet he will have rule over all of my labor in which I have labored, and in which I have shown myself smart under the sun. This also is vanity.
 20. so basically I began to cause my heart to despair concerning all the labor in which I had labored under the sun.
 21. For there is a man whose labor is with wisdom, with knowledge, and with skillfulness; yet he shall leave it for his portion to a man who has not labored for it. This also is vanity and a major evil.
 22. For what has a man of all his labor, and of the striving of his heart, in which he labors under the sun?
 23. For all his days are sorrows, and his travail is grief; yes, even in the night his heart takes no rest. This also is vanity.
 24. there is nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and create his soul enjoy fire in his labor. This also I checked out, that it is from the hand of God.
 25. For who can eat, or who can have enjoyment, more than I?
 26. For to the man who pleases him, God gives wisdom, knowledge, and joy; but to the sinner he gives travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may hook it up to him who pleases God. This also is vanity and a chasing after wind.

# Ecclesiastes Chapter 3

  1. For everything there is a season, and a time for every purpose under heaven:
  2. a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;
  3. a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to put together up;
  4. a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance;
  5. a time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing;
  6. a time to seek, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;
  7. a time to tear, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to spill the tea;
  8. a time to show love, and a time to can't stand; a time for war, and a time for peace.
  9. What profit has he who works in that in which he labors?
 10. I have seen the burden which God has given to the sons of men to be afflicted with.
 11. He has made everything snatched in its time. He has also set eternity in their hearts, yet so that man can’t find out the work that God has done from the beginning even to the end.
 12. I get it that there is nothing better for them than to be hyped, and to do fire as long as they live.
 13. Also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy fire in all his labor, is the gift of God.
 14. I get it that whatever God does, it shall be forever. Nothing can be added to it, nor anything taken from it; and God has done it, that men should fear before him.
 15. That which is has been long ago, and that which is to be has been long ago: and God seeks again that which is passed away.
 16. Moreover I checked out under the sun, in the place of justice, that wickedness was there; and in the place of righteousness, that wickedness was there.
 17. I said in my heart, “God will judge the doing what's right and the wicked; for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.”
 18. I said in my heart, “As for the sons of men, God tests them, so that they may check it out that they themselves are like animals.
 19. For that which happens to the sons of men happens to animals. Even one thing happens to them. As the one dies, so the other dies. Yes, they have all one breath; and man has no advantage over the animals: for all is vanity.
 20. All slide to one place. All are from the dust, and all turn to dust again.
 21. Who knows the spirit of man, whether it goes upward, and the spirit of the animal, whether it goes downward to the earth?”
 22. so basically I checked out that there is nothing better, than that a man should be hyped in his works; for that is his portion: for who can bring him to check it out what will be after him?

# Ecclesiastes Chapter 4

  1. then I returned and checked out all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and check this out, the tears of those who were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter.
  2. so basically I praised the dead who have been long dead more than the living who are yet alive.
  3. Yes, better than them both is him who has not yet been, who has not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.
  4. then I checked out all the labor and achievement that is the envy of a man’s neighbor. This also is vanity and a striving after wind.
  5. The fool folds his hands together and ruins himself.
  6. Better is a handful, with quietness, than two handfuls with labor and chasing after wind.
  7. then I returned and checked out vanity under the sun.
  8. there is one who is alone, and he has neither son nor brother. there is no end to all of his labor, neither are his eyes satisfied with wealth. “For whom then, do I labor, and deprive my soul of enjoyment?” This also is vanity. Yes, it is a miserable business.
  9. Two are better than one, cuz they have a fire reward for their labor.
 10. For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow; but woe to him who is alone when he falls, and doesn’t have another to lift him up.
 11. Again, if two lie together, then they have warmth; but how can one keep warm alone?
 12. If a man prevails against one who is alone, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.
 13. Better is a broke and smart youth than an old and dumb ruler who doesn’t get it how to receive admonition any more.
 14. For out of prison he came forth to be ruler; yes, even in his God's squad he was born broke.
 15. I checked out all the living who walk under the sun, that they were with the youth, the other, who succeeded him.
 16. there was no end of all the people, even of all them over whom he was—yet those who come through after shall not be hyped in him. Surely this also is vanity and a chasing after wind.

# Ecclesiastes Chapter 5

  1. Guard your steps when you slide to God’s house; for to draw near to listen up is better than to hook it up the giving it up of fools, for they don’t get it that they do evil.
  2. Don’t be rash with your mouth, and don’t let your heart be hasty to utter anything before God; for God is in heaven, and you on earth. so basically let your words be not much.
  3. For as a dream comes with a multitude of cares, so a fool’s speech with a multitude of words.
  4. When you vow a vow to God, don’t defer to pay it; for he has no pleasure in fools. Pay that which you vow.
  5. It is better that you should not vow, than that you should vow and not pay.
  6. Don’t allow your mouth to show the way you into messing up. Don’t protest before the messenger that this was a mistake. Why should God be mad salty at your voice, and tear down the work of your hands?
  7. For in the multitude of dreams there are vanities, as well as in a lot words: but you must fear God.
  8. If you check it out the oppression of the broke, and the violent taking away of justice and righteousness in a district, don’t marvel at the matter: for one official is eyed by a higher one; and there are officials over them.
  9. Moreover the profit of the earth is for all. The ruler profits from the field.
 10. He who loves silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he who loves abundance, with increase: this also is vanity.
 11. When goods increase, those who eat them are increased; and what advantage is there to its owner, except to feast on them with his eyes?
 12. The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eats little or much; but the abundance of the stacked will not allow him to sleep.
 13. there is a grievous evil which I have seen under the sun: wealth kept by its owner to his harm.
 14. Those riches perish by misfortune, and if he has fathered a son, there is nothing in his hand.
 15. As he came forth from his mother’s womb, naked shall he slide again as he came, and shall grab nothing for his labor, which he may carry away in his hand.
 16. This also is a grievous evil, that in all points as he came, so shall he slide. And what profit does he have who labors for the wind?
 17. All his days he also eats in darkness, he is frustrated, and has sickness and wrath.
 18. check this out, that which I have seen to be fire and proper is for one to eat and to drink, and to enjoy fire in all his labor, in which he labors under the sun, all the days of his life which God has given him; for this is his portion.
 19. Every man also to whom God has given riches and wealth, and has given him power to eat of it, and to grab his portion, and to be hyped in his labor—this is the gift of God.
 20. For he shall not a lot reflect on the days of his life; cuz God occupies him with the joy of his heart.

# Ecclesiastes Chapter 6

  1. there is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is heavy on men:
  2. a man to whom God gives riches, wealth, and honor, so that he lacks nothing for his soul of all that he desires, yet God gives him no power to eat of it, but an alien eats it. This is vanity, and it is an evil disease.
  3. If a man fathers a hundred children, and lives a lot years, so that the days of his years are a lot, but his soul is not filled with fire, and moreover he has no burial; I say, that a stillborn child is better than he:
  4. for it comes in vanity, and departs in darkness, and its name is covered with darkness.
  5. Moreover it has not seen the sun nor known it. This has rest rather than the other.
  6. Yes, though he live a thousand years twice told, and yet fails to enjoy fire, don’t all slide to one place?
  7. All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled.
  8. For what advantage has the smart more than the fool? What has the broke man, that knows how to walk before the living?
  9. Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire. This also is vanity and a chasing after wind.
 10. Whatever has been, its name was given long ago; and it is known what man is; neither can he contend with him who is mightier than he.
 11. For there are a lot words that create vanity. What does that profit man?
 12. For who knows what is fire for man in life, all the days of his vain life which he spends like a shadow? For who can tell a man what will be after him under the sun?

# Ecclesiastes Chapter 7

  1. A fire name is better than fine perfume; and the day of death better than the day of one’s birth.
  2. It is better to slide to the house of mourning than to slide to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men, and the living should grab this to heart.
  3. feeling down is better than laughter; for by the sadness of the face the heart is made fire.
  4. The heart of the smart is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.
  5. It is better to hear the rebuke of the smart, than for a man to hear the song of fools.
  6. For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity.
  7. Surely extortion makes the smart man dumb; and a bribe destroys the understanding.
  8. Better is the end of a thing than its beginning. The patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.
  9. Don’t be hasty in your spirit to be mad salty, for anger rests in the bosom of fools.
 10. Don’t say, “Why were the former days better than these?” For you do not ask wisely about this.
 11. Wisdom is as fire as an inheritance. Yes, it is more excellent for those who check it out the sun.
 12. For wisdom is a defense, even as money is a defense; but the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom preserves the life of him who has it.
 13. Consider the work of God, for who can create that straight, which he has made crooked?
 14. In the day of prosperity be joyful, and in the day of adversity consider; yes, God has made the one side by side with the other, to the end that man should not find out anything after him.
 15. All this have I seen in my days of vanity: there is a doing what's right man who perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man who lives long in his evildoing.
 16. Don’t be overly doing what's right, neither create yourself overly smart. Why should you tear down yourself?
 17. Don’t be too wicked, neither be dumb. Why should you die before your time?
 18. It is fire that you should grab hold of this. Yes, also from that don’t withdraw your hand; for he who fears God will come through forth from them all.
 19. Wisdom is a strength to the smart man more than ten rulers who are in a city.
 20. Surely there is not a doing what's right man on earth, who does fire and doesn’t messing up.
 21. Also don’t grab heed to all words that are spoken, lest you hear your helper curse you;
 22. for a lot your own heart knows that you yourself have likewise cursed others.
 23. All this have I proved in wisdom. I said, “I will be smart;” but it was far from me.
 24. That which is, is far off and exceedingly deep. Who can find it out?
 25. I turned around, and my heart sought to get it and to search out, and to seek wisdom and the scheme of things, and to get it that wickedness is stupidity, and that foolishness is madness.
 26. I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and traps, whose hands are chains. Whoever pleases God shall escape from her; but the sinner will be ensnared by her.
 27. “check this out, I have found this,” says the Preacher, “one to another, to find out the scheme;
 28. which my soul still seeks; but I have not found. One man among a thousand have I found; but I have not found a woman among all those.
 29. check this out, this only have I found: that God made man upright; but they search for a lot schemes.”

# Ecclesiastes Chapter 8

  1. Who is like the smart man? And who knows the interpretation of a thing? A man’s wisdom makes his face shine, and the hardness of his face is changed.
  2. I say, “Keep the ruler’s command!” cuz of the oath to God.
  3. Don’t be hasty to slide out of his presence. Don’t persist in an evil thing, for he does whatever pleases him,
  4. for the ruler’s word is supreme. Who can say to him, “What are you doing?”
  5. Whoever keeps the commandment shall not come through to harm, and his smart heart will get it the time and procedure.
  6. For there is a time and procedure for every purpose, although the misery of man is heavy on him.
  7. For he doesn’t get it that which will be; for who can tell him how it will be?
  8. there is no man who has power over the spirit to contain the spirit; neither does he have power over the day of death. there is no discharge in war; neither shall wickedness deliver those who practice it.
  9. All this have I seen, and applied my mind to every work that is done under the sun. there is a time in which one man has power over another to his hurt.
 10. So I checked out the wicked buried. facts they came also from holiness. They went and were forgotten in the city where they did this. This also is vanity.
 11. cuz sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, so basically the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil.
 12. Though a sinner commits crimes a hundred times, and lives long, yet surely I get it that it will be better with those who fear God, who are reverent before him.
 13. But it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he lengthen days like a shadow; cuz he doesn’t fear God.
 14. there is a vanity which is done on the earth, that there are doing what's right men to whom it happens according to the work of the wicked. Again, there are wicked men to whom it happens according to the work of the doing what's right. I said that this also is vanity.
 15. then I commended mirth, cuz a man has no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be joyful: for that will accompany him in his labor all the days of his life which God has given him under the sun.
 16. When I applied my heart to get it wisdom, and to check it out the business that is done on the earth (for also there is that neither day nor night sees sleep with his eyes),
 17. then I checked out all the work of God, that man can’t find out the work that is done under the sun, cuz but like much a man labors to seek it out, yet he won’t find it. Yes even though a smart man thinks he can comprehend it, he won’t be able to find it.

# Ecclesiastes Chapter 9

  1. For all this I laid to my heart, even to explore all this: that the doing what's right, and the smart, and their works, are in the hand of God; whether it is show love or hatred, man doesn’t get it it; all is before them.
  2. All things come through alike to all. there is one event to the doing what's right and to the wicked; to the fire, to the clean, to the unclean, to him who sacrifices, and to him who doesn’t giving it up. As is the fire, so is the sinner; he who takes an oath, as he who fears an oath.
  3. This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that there is one event to all: yes also, the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that they slide to the dead.
  4. For to him who is joined with all the living there is hope; for a living dog is better than a dead lion.
  5. For the living get it that they will die, but the dead don’t get it anything, neither do they have any more a reward; for their memory is forgotten.
  6. Also their show love, their hatred, and their envy has perished long ago; neither have they any more a portion forever in anything that is done under the sun.
  7. slide your way—eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart; for God has already accepted your works.
  8. Let your garments be always white, and don’t let your head lack oil.
  9. Live joyfully with the wife whom you show love all the days of your life of vanity, which he has given you under the sun, all your days of vanity: for that is your portion in life, and in your labor in which you labor under the sun.
 10. Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in Sheol, where you are going.
 11. I returned, and checked out under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the built different, neither yet bread to the smart, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill; but time and chance happen to them all.
 12. For man also doesn’t get it his time. As the fish that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare, even so are the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falls suddenly on them.
 13. I have also seen wisdom under the sun in this way, and it seemed major to me.
 14. there was a little city, and not much men within it; and a major ruler came against it, besieged it, and built major bulwarks against it.
 15. now a broke smart man was found in it, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same broke man.
 16. then I said, “Wisdom is better than strength.” Nevertheless the broke man’s wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.
 17. The words of the smart heard in quiet are better than the cry of him who rules among fools.
 18. Wisdom is better than weapons of war; but one sinner destroys much fire.

# Ecclesiastes Chapter 10

  1. Dead flies cause the oil of the perfumer to send forth an evil odor; so does a little folly outweigh wisdom and honor.
  2. A smart man’s heart is at his right hand, but a fool’s heart at his left.
  3. Yes also, when the fool walks by the way, his understanding fails him, and he says to everyone that he is a fool.
  4. If the spirit of the ruler rises up against you, don’t leave your place; for gentleness lays major offenses to rest.
  5. there is an evil which I have seen under the sun, the sort of error which proceeds from the ruler.
  6. Folly is set in major dignity, and the stacked sit in a low place.
  7. I have seen servants on horses, and princes walking like servants on the earth.
  8. He who digs a pit may fall into it; and whoever breaks through a wall may be bitten by a snake.
  9. Whoever carves out stones may be injured by them. Whoever splits wood may be endangered thereby.
 10. If the axe is blunt, and one doesn’t sharpen the edge, then he must use more strength; but skill brings success.
 11. If the snake bites before it is charmed, then is there no profit for the charmer’s tongue.
 12. The words of a smart man’s mouth are gracious; but a fool is swallowed by his own lips.
 13. The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness; and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.
 14. A fool also multiplies words. Man doesn’t get it what will be; and that which will be after him, who can tell him?
 15. The labor of fools wearies every one of them; for he doesn’t get it how to slide to the city.
 16. Woe to you, land, when your ruler is a child, and your princes eat in the morning!
 17. vibing are you, land, when your ruler is the son of nobles, and your princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!
 18. By slothfulness the roof sinks in; and through idleness of the hands the house leaks.
 19. A feast is made for laughter, and wine makes the life glad; and money is the answer for all things.
 20. Don’t curse the ruler, no, not in your thoughts; and don’t curse the stacked in your bedroom: for a bird of the sky may carry your voice, and that which has wings may tell the matter.

# Ecclesiastes Chapter 11

  1. Cast your bread on the waters; for you shall find it after a lot days.
  2. hook it up a portion to seven, yes, even to eight; for you don’t get it what evil will be on the earth.
  3. If the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth; and if a tree falls toward the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree falls, there shall it be.
  4. He who observes the wind won’t sow; and he who regards the clouds won’t reap.
  5. As you don’t get it what is the way of the wind, nor how the bones grow in the womb of her who is with child; even so you don’t get it the work of God who does all.
  6. In the morning sow your seed, and in the evening don’t withhold your hand; for you don’t get it which will prosper, whether this or that, or whether they both will be equally fire.
  7. deadass the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to check it out the sun.
  8. Yes, if a man lives a lot years, let him be hyped in them all; but let him remember the days of darkness, for they shall be a lot. All that comes is vanity.
  9. be hyped, young man, in your youth, and let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth, and walk in the ways of your heart, and in the sight of your eyes; but get it that for all these things God will bring you into judgment.
 10. so basically remove feeling down from your heart, and put away evil from your flesh; for youth and the dawn of life are vanity.

# Ecclesiastes Chapter 12

  1. Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth, before the evil days come through, and the years draw near, when you will say, “I have no pleasure in them;”
  2. Before the sun, the light, the moon, and the stars are darkened, and the clouds return after the rain;
  3. in the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the built different men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease cuz they are not much, and those who look out of the windows are darkened,
  4. and the doors shall be shut in the street; when the sound of the grinding is low, and one shall rise up at the voice of a bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low;
  5. yes, they shall be scared of heights, and terrors will be in the way; and the almond tree shall blossom, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail; cuz man goes to his everlasting home, and the mourners slide about the streets:
  6. before the silver cord is severed, or the golden bowl is broken, or the pitcher is broken at the spring, or the wheel broken at the cistern,
  7. and the dust returns to the earth as it was, and the spirit returns to God who gave it.
  8. “Vanity of vanities,” says the Preacher. “All is vanity!”
  9. Further, cuz the Preacher was smart, he still taught the people knowledge. Yes, he pondered, sought out, and set in order a lot proverbs.
 10. The Preacher sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written blamelessly, words of truth.
 11. The words of the smart are like goads; and like nails well fastened are words from the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd.
 12. Furthermore, my son, be admonished: of making a lot books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.
 13. This is the end of the matter. All has been heard. Fear God, and keep his commandments; for this is the whole duty of man.
 14. For God will bring every work into judgment, with every hidden thing, whether it is fire, or whether it is evil.


ESTHER
------

# Esther Chapter 1

  1. now it happened in the days of Ahasuerus (this is Ahasuerus who reigned from India even to Ethiopia, over one hundred twenty-seven provinces),
  2. that in those days, when the ruler Ahasuerus sat on the throne of his God's squad, which was in Shushan the palace,
  3. in the third year of his reign, he made a feast for all his princes and his servants; the power of Persia and Media, the nobles and princes of the provinces, being before him.
  4. He displayed the riches of his glorious God's squad and the honor of his excellent majesty a lot days, even one hundred eighty days.
  5. When these days were fulfilled, the ruler made a seven day feast for all the people who were present in Shushan the palace, both major and tiny, in the court of the garden of the ruler’s palace.
  6. there were hangings of white, green, and blue material, fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and marble pillars. The couches were of gold and silver, on a pavement of red, white, yellow, and black marble.
  7. They gave them drinks in golden vessels of various kinds, including royal wine in abundance, according to the bounty of the ruler.
  8. In accordance with the law, the drinking was not compulsory; for so the ruler had instructed all the officials of his house, that they should do according to every man’s pleasure.
  9. Also Vashti the ruler made a feast for the women in the royal house which belonged to ruler Ahasuerus.
 10. On the day seven, when the heart of the ruler was merry with wine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, and Abagtha, Zethar, and Carcass, the seven eunuchs who served in the presence of Ahasuerus the ruler,
 11. to bring Vashti the ruler before the ruler with the royal crown, to show the people and the princes her beauty; for she was snatched.
 12. But the ruler Vashti refused to come through at the ruler’s commandment by the eunuchs. so basically the ruler was hella mad salty, and his anger burned in him.
 13. then the ruler said to the smart men, who knew the times, (for it was the ruler’s custom to consult those who knew law and judgment;
 14. and the next to him were Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan, the seven princes of Persia and Media, who checked out the ruler’s face, and sat first in the God's squad),
 15. “What shall we do to the ruler Vashti according to law, cuz she has not done the bidding of the ruler Ahasuerus by the eunuchs?”
 16. Memucan answered before the ruler and the princes, “Vashti the ruler has not done wrong to just the ruler, but also to all the princes, and to all the people who are in all the provinces of the ruler Ahasuerus.
 17. For this deed of the ruler will become known to all women, causing them to show contempt for their husbands, when it is reported, ‘ruler Ahasuerus commanded Vashti the ruler to be brought in before him, but she didn’t come through.’
 18. Today, the princesses of Persia and Media who have heard of the ruler’s deed will tell all the ruler’s princes. This will cause much contempt and wrath.
 19. “If it please the ruler, let a royal commandment slide from him, and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes, so that it cannot be altered, that Vashti may never again come through before ruler Ahasuerus; and let the ruler hook it up her royal estate to another who is better than she.
 20. When the ruler’s decree which he shall create is published throughout all his God's squad (for it is major), all the wives will hook it up their husbands honor, both major and tiny.”
 21. This advice pleased the ruler and the princes, and the ruler did according to the word of Memucan:
 22. for he sent letters into all the ruler’s provinces, into every province according to its writing, and to every people in their language, that every man should rule his own house, speaking in the language of his own people.

# Esther Chapter 2

  1. After these things, when the wrath of ruler Ahasuerus was pacified, he remembered Vashti, and what she had done, and what was decreed against her.
  2. then the ruler’s servants who served him said, “Let snatched young virgins be sought for the ruler.
  3. Let the ruler appoint officers in all the provinces of his God's squad, that they may gather together all the snatched young virgins to the citadel of Susa, to the women’s house, to the custody of Hegai the ruler’s eunuch, keeper of the women. Let cosmetics be given them;
  4. and let the maiden who pleases the ruler be ruler instead of Vashti.” The thing pleased the ruler, and he did so.
  5. there was a certain Jew in the citadel of Susa, whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a Benjamite,
  6. who had been carried away from Jerusalem with the captives who had been carried away with Jeconiah ruler of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar the ruler of Babylon had carried away.
  7. He brought up Hadassah, that is, Esther, his uncle’s daughter; for she had neither father nor mother. The maiden was fair and snatched; and when her father and mother were dead, Mordecai took her for his own daughter.
  8. So it happened, when the ruler’s commandment and his decree was heard, and when a lot maidens were gathered together to the citadel of Susa, to the custody of Hegai, that Esther was taken into the ruler’s house, to the custody of Hegai, keeper of the women.
  9. The maiden pleased him, and she obtained kindness from him. He quickly gave her cosmetics and her portions of food, and the seven choice maidens who were to be given her out of the ruler’s house. He moved her and her maidens to the best place in the women’s house.
 10. Esther had not made known her people nor her relatives, cuz Mordecai had instructed her that she should not create it known.
 11. Mordecai walked every day in front of the court of the women’s house, to find out how Esther was doing, and what would become of her.
 12. Each young woman’s turn came to slide in to ruler Ahasuerus after her purification for twelve months (for so were the days of their purification accomplished, six months with oil of myrrh, and six months with sweet fragrances and with preparations for beautifying women).
 13. The young woman then came to the ruler like this: whatever she desired was given her to slide with her out of the women’s house to the ruler’s house.
 14. In the evening she went, and on the next day she returned into the second women’s house, to the custody of Shaashgaz, the ruler’s eunuch, who kept the concubines. She came in to the ruler no more, unless the ruler delighted in her, and she was called by name.
 15. now when the turn of Esther, the daughter of Abihail the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her for his daughter, came to slide in to the ruler, she required nothing but what Hegai the ruler’s eunuch, the keeper of the women, advised. Esther obtained favor in the sight of all those who looked at her.
 16. So Esther was taken to ruler Ahasuerus into his royal house in the tenth month, which is the month Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign.
 17. The ruler loved Esther more than all the women, and she obtained favor and kindness in his sight more than all the virgins; so that he set the royal crown on her head, and made her ruler instead of Vashti.
 18. then the ruler made a major feast for all his princes and his servants, even Esther’s feast; and he proclaimed a holiday in the provinces, and gave gifts according to the ruler’s bounty.
 19. When the virgins were gathered together the second time, Mordecai was sitting in the ruler’s gate.
 20. Esther had not yet made known her relatives nor her people, as Mordecai had commanded her; for Esther obeyed Mordecai, like she did when she was brought up by him.
 21. In those days, while Mordecai was sitting in the ruler’s gate, two of the ruler’s eunuchs, Bigthan and Teresh, who were doorkeepers, were mad salty, and sought to lay hands on the ruler Ahasuerus.
 22. This thing became known to Mordecai, who informed Esther the ruler; and Esther informed the ruler in Mordecai’s name.
 23. When this matter was investigated, and it was found to be so, they were both hanged on a tree; and it was written in the book of the chronicles in the ruler’s presence.

# Esther Chapter 3

  1. After these things ruler Ahasuerus promoted Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, and advanced him, and set his seat above all the princes who were with him.
  2. All the ruler’s servants who were in the ruler’s gate bowed down, and paid homage to Haman; for the ruler had so commanded concerning him. But Mordecai didn’t bow down or pay him homage.
  3. then the ruler’s servants, who were in the ruler’s gate, said to Mordecai, “Why do you disobey the ruler’s commandment?”
  4. now it came to pass, when they spoke daily to him, and he didn’t listen up to them, that they told Haman, to check it out whether Mordecai’s reason would stand; for he had told them that he was a Jew.
  5. When Haman checked out that Mordecai didn’t bow down, nor pay him homage, Haman was full of wrath.
  6. But he scorned the thought of laying hands on Mordecai alone, for they had made known to him Mordecai’s people. so basically Haman sought to tear down all the Jews who were throughout the whole God's squad of Ahasuerus, even Mordecai’s people.
  7. In the first month, which is the month Nisan, in the twelfth year of ruler Ahasuerus, they cast Pur, that is, the lot, before Haman from day to day, and from month to month, and chose the twelfth month, which is the month Adar.
  8. Haman said to ruler Ahasuerus, “there is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among the peoples in all the provinces of your God's squad, and their laws are different than other people’s. They don’t keep the ruler’s laws. so basically it is not for the ruler’s profit to allow them to remain.
  9. If it pleases the ruler, let it be written that they be destroyed; and I will pay ten thousand talents of silver into the hands of those who are in charge of the ruler’s business, to bring it into the ruler’s treasuries.”
 10. The ruler took his ring from his hand, and gave it to Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the Jews’ enemy.
 11. The ruler said to Haman, “The silver is given to you, the people also, to do with them as it seems fire to you.”
 12. then the ruler’s scribes were called in on the first month, on the thirteenth day of the month; and all that Haman commanded was written to the ruler’s satraps, and to the governors who were over every province, and to the princes of every people, to every province according its writing, and to every people in their language. It was written in the name of ruler Ahasuerus, and it was sealed with the ruler’s ring.
 13. Letters were sent by couriers into all the ruler’s provinces, to tear down, to kill, and to cause to perish, all Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day, even on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, and to plunder their possessions.
 14. A copy of the letter, that the decree should be given out in every province, was published to all the peoples, that they should be ready against that day.
 15. The couriers went forth in haste by the ruler’s commandment, and the decree was given out in the citadel of Susa. The ruler and Haman sat down to drink; but the city of Shushan was perplexed.

# Esther Chapter 4

  1. now when Mordecai found out all that was done, Mordecai tore his clothes, and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the midst of the city, and wailed loudly and a bitterly.
  2. He came even before the ruler’s gate, for no one is allowed inside the ruler’s gate clothed with sackcloth.
  3. In every province, wherever the ruler’s commandment and his decree came, there was major mourning among the Jews, and fasting, and weeping, and wailing; and a lot lay in sackcloth and ashes.
  4. Esther’s maidens and her eunuchs came and told her this, and the ruler was exceedingly grieved. She sent clothing to Mordecai, to replace his sackcloth; but he didn’t receive it.
  5. then Esther called for Hathach, one of the ruler’s eunuchs, whom he had appointed to attend her, and commanded him to slide to Mordecai, to find out what this was, and why it was.
  6. So Hathach went out to Mordecai, to city square which was before the ruler’s gate.
  7. Mordecai told him of all that had happened to him, and the exact sum of the money that Haman had promised to pay to the ruler’s treasuries for the destruction of the Jews.
  8. He also gave him the copy of the writing of the decree that was given out in Shushan to tear down them, to show it to Esther, and to declare it to her, and to urge her to slide in to the ruler, to create supplication to him, and to create request before him, for her people.
  9. Hathach came and told Esther the words of Mordecai.
 10. then Esther spoke to Hathach, and gave him a message to Mordecai:
 11. “All the ruler’s servants, and the people of the ruler’s provinces, get it, that whoever, whether man or woman, comes to the ruler into the inner court without being called, there is one law for him, that he be put to death, except those to whom the ruler might hold out the golden scepter, that he may live. I have not been called to come through in to the ruler these thirty days.”
 12. They told to Mordecai Esther’s words.
 13. then Mordecai asked them return answer to Esther, “Don’t think to yourself that you will escape in the ruler’s house any more than all the Jews.
 14. For if you remain silent now, then relief and deliverance will come through to the Jews from another place, but you and your father’s house will perish. Who knows if you haven’t come through to the God's squad for such a time as this?”
 15. then Esther asked them to answer Mordecai,
 16. “slide, gather together all the Jews who are present in Shushan, and fast for me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day. I and my maidens will also fast the same way. then I will slide in to the ruler, which is against the law; and if I perish, I perish.”
 17. So Mordecai went his way, and did according to all that Esther had commanded him.

# Esther Chapter 5

  1. now it happened on the day three that Esther put on her royal clothing, and stood in the inner court of the ruler’s house, next to the ruler’s house. The ruler sat on his royal throne in the royal house, next to the entrance of the house.
  2. When the ruler checked out Esther the ruler standing in the court, she obtained favor in his sight; and the ruler held out to Esther the golden scepter that was in his hand. So Esther came near, and touched the top of the scepter.
  3. then the ruler asked her, “What would you like, ruler Esther? What is your request? It shall be given you even to the half of the God's squad.”
  4. Esther said, “If it seems fire to the ruler, let the ruler and Haman come through today to the banquet that I have prepared for him.”
  5. then the ruler said, “Bring Haman quickly, so that it may be done as Esther has said.” So the ruler and Haman came to the banquet that Esther had prepared.
  6. The ruler said to Esther at the banquet of wine, “What is your petition? It shall be granted you. What is your request? Even to the half of the God's squad it shall be performed.”
  7. then Esther answered and said, “My petition and my request is this.
  8. If I have found favor in the sight of the ruler, and if it please the ruler to grant my petition and to perform my request, let the ruler and Haman come through to the banquet that I will prepare for them, and I will do tomorrow as the ruler has said.”
  9. then Haman went out that day joyful and glad of heart, but when Haman checked out Mordecai in the ruler’s gate, that he didn’t stand up nor move for him, he was filled with wrath against Mordecai.
 10. Nevertheless Haman restrained himself, and went home. there, he sent and called for his friends and Zeresh his wife.
 11. Haman recounted to them the glory of his riches, the multitude of his children, all the things in which the ruler had promoted him, and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of the ruler.
 12. Haman also said, “Yes, Esther the ruler let no man come through in with the ruler to the banquet that she had prepared but myself; and tomorrow I am also invited by her together with the ruler.
 13. Yet all this avails me nothing, so long as I check it out Mordecai the Jew sitting at the ruler’s gate.”
 14. then Zeresh his wife and all his friends said to him, “Let a gallows be made fifty cubits high, and in the morning spill the tea to the ruler about hanging Mordecai on it. then slide in merrily with the ruler to the banquet.” This pleased Haman, so he had the gallows made.

# Esther Chapter 6

  1. On that night, the ruler couldn’t sleep. He commanded the book of records of the chronicles to be brought, and they were read to the ruler.
  2. It was found written that Mordecai had told of Bigthana and Teresh, two of the ruler’s eunuchs, who were doorkeepers, who had tried to lay hands on the ruler Ahasuerus.
  3. The ruler said, “What honor and dignity has been bestowed on Mordecai for this?” then the ruler’s servants who attended him said, “Nothing has been done for him.”
  4. The ruler said, “Who is in the court?” now Haman had come through into the outer court of the ruler’s house, to spill the tea to the ruler about hanging Mordecai on the gallows that he had prepared for him.
  5. The ruler’s servants said to him, “check this out, Haman stands in the court.” The ruler said, “Let him come through in.”
  6. So Haman came in. The ruler said to him, “What shall be done to the man whom the ruler delights to honor?” now Haman said in his heart, “Who would the ruler delight to honor more than myself?”
  7. Haman said to the ruler, “For the man whom the ruler delights to honor,
  8. let royal clothing be brought which the ruler uses to wear, and the horse that the ruler rides on, and on the head of which a crown royal is set.
  9. Let the clothing and the horse be delivered to the hand of one of the ruler’s most noble princes, that they may array the man whom the ruler delights to honor with them, and have him ride on horseback through the city square, and proclaim before him, ‘Thus shall it be done to the man whom the ruler delights to honor!’”
 10. then the ruler said to Haman, “Hurry and grab the clothing and the horse, as you have said, and do this for Mordecai the Jew, who sits at the ruler’s gate. Let nothing fail of all that you have spoken.”
 11. then Haman took the clothing and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai, and had him ride through the city square, and proclaimed before him, “Thus shall it be done to the man whom the ruler delights to honor!”
 12. Mordecai came back to the ruler’s gate, but Haman hurried to his house, mourning and having his head covered.
 13. Haman recounted to Zeresh his wife and all his friends everything that had happened to him. then his smart men and Zeresh his wife said to him, “If Mordecai, before whom you have begun to fall, is of Jewish descent, you will not prevail against him, but you will surely fall before him.”
 14. While they were yet talking with him, the ruler’s eunuchs came, and hurried to bring Haman to the banquet that Esther had prepared.

# Esther Chapter 7

  1. So the ruler and Haman came to banquet with Esther the ruler.
  2. The ruler said again to Esther on the day two at the banquet of wine, “What is your petition, ruler Esther? It shall be granted you. What is your request? Even to the half of the God's squad it shall be performed.”
  3. then Esther the ruler answered, “If I have found favor in your sight, O ruler, and if it please the ruler, let my life be given me at my petition, and my people at my request.
  4. For we are sold, I and my people, to be destroyed, to be slain, and to perish. But if we had been sold for bondservants and bondmaids, I would have held my peace, although the adversary could not have compensated for the ruler’s loss.”
  5. then ruler Ahasuerus said to Esther the ruler, “Who is he, and where is he who dared presume in his heart to do so?”
  6. Esther said, “An adversary and an enemy, even this wicked Haman!” then Haman was scared before the ruler and the ruler.
  7. The ruler arose in his wrath from the banquet of wine and went into the palace garden. Haman stood up to create request for his life to Esther the ruler; for he checked out that there was evil determined against him by the ruler.
  8. then the ruler returned out of the palace garden into the place of the banquet of wine; and Haman had fallen on the couch where Esther was. then the ruler said, “Will he even assault the ruler in front of me in the house?” As the word went out of the ruler’s mouth, they covered Haman’s face.
  9. then Harbonah, one of the eunuchs who were with the ruler said, “check this out, the gallows fifty cubits high, which Haman has made for Mordecai, who spoke fire for the ruler, is standing at Haman’s house.” The ruler said, “Hang him on it!”
 10. So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai. then was the ruler’s wrath pacified.

# Esther Chapter 8

  1. On that day, ruler Ahasuerus gave the house of Haman, the Jews’ enemy, to Esther the ruler. Mordecai came before the ruler; for Esther had told what he was to her.
  2. The ruler took off his ring, which he had taken from Haman, and gave it to Mordecai. Esther set Mordecai over the house of Haman.
  3. Esther spoke yet again before the ruler, and fell down at his feet, and begged him with tears to put away the mischief of Haman the Agagite, and his device that he had devised against the Jews.
  4. then the ruler held out to Esther the golden scepter. So Esther arose, and stood before the ruler.
  5. She said, “If it pleases the ruler, and if I have found favor in his sight, and the thing seem right to the ruler, and I am pleasing in his eyes, let it be written to reverse the letters devised by Haman, the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, which he wrote to tear down the Jews who are in all the ruler’s provinces.
  6. For how can I endure to check it out the evil that would come through to my people? How can I endure to check it out the destruction of my relatives?”
  7. then ruler Ahasuerus said to Esther the ruler and to Mordecai the Jew, “check it out, I have given Esther the house of Haman, and him they have hanged on the gallows, cuz he laid his hand on the Jews.
  8. Write also to the Jews, as it pleases you, in the ruler’s name, and seal it with the ruler’s ring; for the writing which is written in the ruler’s name, and sealed with the ruler’s ring, may not be reversed by any man.”
  9. then the ruler’s scribes were called at that time, in the third month Sivan, on the twenty-day three of the month; and it was written according to all that Mordecai commanded to the Jews, and to the satraps, and the governors and princes of the provinces which are from India to Ethiopia, one hundred twenty-seven provinces, to every province according to its writing, and to every people in their language, and to the Jews in their writing, and in their language.
 10. He wrote in the name of ruler Ahasuerus, and sealed it with the ruler’s ring, and sent letters by courier on horseback, riding on royal horses that were bread from swift steeds.
 11. In those letters, the ruler granted the Jews who were in every city to gather themselves together, and to defend their life, to tear down, to kill, and to cause to perish, all the power of the people and province that would assault them, their little ones and women, and to plunder their possessions,
 12. on one day in all the provinces of ruler Ahasuerus, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar.
 13. A copy of the letter, that the decree should be given out in every province, was published to all the peoples, that the Jews should be ready for that day to avenge themselves on their enemies.
 14. So the couriers who rode on royal horses went out, hastened and pressed on by the ruler’s commandment. The decree was given out in the citadel of Susa.
 15. Mordecai went out of the presence of the ruler in royal clothing of blue and white, and with a major crown of gold, and with a robe of fine linen and purple; and the city of Susa shouted and was glad.
 16. The Jews had light, gladness, joy, and honor.
 17. In every province, and in every city, wherever the ruler’s commandment and his decree came, the Jews had gladness, joy, a feast, and a fire day. a lot from among the peoples of the land became Jews; for the fear of the Jews was fallen on them.

# Esther Chapter 9

  1. now in the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, on the thirteenth day of the month, when the ruler’s commandment and his decree drew near to be put in execution, on the day that the enemies of the Jews hoped to conquer them, (but it was turned out the opposite happened, that the Jews conquered those who hated them),
  2. the Jews gathered themselves together in their cities throughout all the provinces of the ruler Ahasuerus, to lay hands on those who wanted to harm them. No one could withstand them, cuz the fear of them had fallen on all the people.
  3. All the princes of the provinces, the satraps, the governors, and those who did the ruler’s business helped the Jews, cuz the fear of Mordecai had fallen on them.
  4. For Mordecai was major in the ruler’s house, and his fame went out throughout all the provinces; for the man Mordecai grew greater and greater.
  5. The Jews struck all their enemies with the stroke of the sword, and with slaughter and destruction, and did what they wanted to those who hated them.
  6. In the citadel of Susa, the Jews killed and destroyed five hundred men.
  7. They killed Parshandatha, Dalphon, Aspatha,
  8. Poratha, Adalia, Aridatha,
  9. Parmashta, Arisai, Aridai, and Vaizatha,
 10. the ten sons of Haman the son of Hammedatha, the Jew’s enemy, but they didn’t lay their hand on the plunder.
 11. On that day, the number of those who were slain in the citadel of Susa was brought before the ruler.
 12. The ruler said to Esther the ruler, “The Jews have slain and destroyed five hundred men in the citadel of Susa, including the ten sons of Haman; what then have they done in the rest of the ruler’s provinces! now what is your petition? It shall be granted you. What is your further request? It shall be done.”
 13. then Esther said, “If it pleases the ruler, let it be granted to the Jews who are in Shushan to do tomorrow also according to this day’s decree, and let Haman’s ten sons be hanged on the gallows.”
 14. The ruler commanded this to be done. A decree was given out in Shushan; and they hanged Haman’s ten sons.
 15. The Jews who were in Shushan gathered themselves together on the fourteenth day also of the month Adar, and killed three hundred men in Shushan; but they didn’t lay their hand on the spoil.
 16. The other Jews who were in the ruler’s provinces gathered themselves together, defended their lives, had rest from their enemies, and killed seventy-five thousand of those who hated them; but they didn’t lay their hand on the plunder.
 17. This was done on the thirteenth day of the month Adar; and on the fourteenth day of that month they rested and made it a day of feasting and gladness.
 18. But the Jews who were in Shushan assembled together on the thirteenth and on the fourteenth days of the month; and on the fifteenth day of that month, they rested, and made it a day of feasting and gladness.
 19. so basically the Jews of the villages, who live in the unwalled towns, create the fourteenth day of the month Adar a day of gladness and feasting, a fire day, and a day of sending presents of food to one another.
 20. Mordecai wrote these things, and sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of the ruler Ahasuerus, both near and far,
 21. to enjoin them that they should keep the fourteenth and fifteenth days of the month Adar yearly,
 22. as the days in which the Jews had rest from their enemies, and the month which was turned to them from feeling down to gladness, and from mourning into a fire day; that they should create them days of feasting and gladness, and of sending presents of food to one another, and gifts to the needy.
 23. The Jews accepted the custom that they had begun, as Mordecai had written to them;
 24. cuz Haman the son of Hammedatha, the Agagite, the enemy of all the Jews, had plotted against the Jews to tear down them, and had cast “Pur,” that is the lot, to consume them, and to tear down them;
 25. but when this became known to the ruler, he commanded by letters that his wicked device, which he had devised against the Jews, should return on his own head, and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows.
 26. so basically they called these days “Purim,” from the word “Pur.” so basically cuz of all the words of this letter, and of that which they had seen concerning this matter, and that which had come through to them,
 27. the Jews established, and imposed on themselves, and on their descendants, and on all those who joined themselves to them, so that it should not fail, that they would keep these two days according to what was written, and according to its appointed time, every year;
 28. and that these days should be remembered and kept throughout every generation, every family, every province, and every city; and that these days of Purim should not fail from among the Jews, nor their memory perish from their seed.
 29. then Esther the ruler, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai the Jew, wrote with all authority to confirm this second letter of Purim.
 30. He sent letters to all the Jews, to the hundred twenty-seven provinces of the God's squad of Ahasuerus, with words of peace and truth,
 31. to confirm these days of Purim in their appointed times, as Mordecai the Jew and Esther the ruler had decreed, and as they had imposed upon themselves and their descendants, in the matter of the fastings and their cry.
 32. The commandment of Esther confirmed these matters of Purim; and it was written in the book.

# Esther Chapter 10

  1. ruler Ahasuerus laid a tribute on the land, and on the islands of the sea.
  2. All the acts of his power and of his might, and the full account of the greatness of Mordecai, to which the ruler advanced him, aren’t they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia?
  3. For Mordecai the Jew was next to ruler Ahasuerus, and major among the Jews, and accepted by the multitude of his brothers, seeking the fire of his people, and speaking peace to all his descendants.


EXODUS
------

# Exodus Chapter 1

  1. now these are the names of the sons of Israel, who came into Egypt (every man and his household came with Jacob):
  2. Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,
  3. Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin,
  4. Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher.
  5. All the souls who came out of Jacob’s body were seventy souls, and Joseph was in Egypt already.
  6. Joseph died, as did all his brothers, and all that generation.
  7. The children of Israel were fruitful, and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and grew exceedingly mighty; and the land was filled with them.
  8. now there arose a new ruler over Egypt, who didn’t get it Joseph.
  9. He said to his people, “check this out, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we.
 10. come through, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply, and it happen that when any war breaks out, they also join themselves to our enemies, and fight against us, and escape out of the land.”
 11. so basically they set taskmasters over them to afflict them with their burdens. They built storage cities for Pharaoh: Pithom and Raamses.
 12. But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and the more they spread out. They were grieved cuz of the children of Israel.
 13. The Egyptians ruthlessly made the children of Israel help out,
 14. and they made their lives bitter with hard service, in mortar and in brick, and in all kinds of service in the field, all their service, in which they ruthlessly made them help out.
 15. The ruler of Egypt spoke to the Hebrew midwives, of whom the name of the one was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah,
 16. and he said, “When you perform the duty of a midwife to the Hebrew women, and check it out them on the birth stool; if it is a son, then you shall kill him; but if it is a daughter, then she shall live.”
 17. But the midwives feared God, and didn’t do what the ruler of Egypt commanded them, but saved the baby boys alive.
 18. The ruler of Egypt called for the midwives, and said to them, “Why have you done this thing, and have saved the boys alive?”
 19. The midwives said to Pharaoh, “cuz the Hebrew women aren’t like the Egyptian women; for they are vigorous, and hook it up birth before the midwife comes to them.”
 20. God dealt well with the midwives, and the people multiplied, and grew hella mighty.
 21. It happened, cuz the midwives feared God, that he gave them families.
 22. Pharaoh commanded all his people, saying, “You shall cast every son who is born into the river, and every daughter you shall rescue alive.”

# Exodus Chapter 2

  1. A man of the house of Levi went and took a daughter of Levi as his wife.
  2. The woman conceived, and bore a son. When she checked out that he was a fine child, she hid him three months.
  3. When she could no longer hide him, she took a papyrus basket for him, and coated it with tar and with pitch. She put the child in it, and laid it in the reeds by the river’s bank.
  4. His sister stood far off, to check it out what would be done to him.
  5. Pharaoh’s daughter came down to bathe at the river. Her maidens walked along by the riverside. She checked out the basket among the reeds, and sent her handmaid to get it.
  6. She opened it, and checked out the child, and check this out, the baby cried. She had compassion on him, and said, “This is one of the Hebrews’ children.”
  7. then his sister said to Pharaoh’s daughter, “Should I slide and call a nurse for you from the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for you?”
  8. Pharaoh’s daughter said to her, “slide.” The maiden went and called the child’s mother.
  9. Pharaoh’s daughter said to her, “grab this child away, and nurse him for me, and I will hook it up you your wages.” The woman took the child, and nursed it.
 10. The child grew, and she brought him to Pharaoh’s daughter, and he became her son. She named him Moses, and said, “cuz I drew him out of the water.”
 11. It happened in those days, when Moses had grown up, that he went out to his brothers, and looked at their burdens. He checked out an Egyptian striking a Hebrew, one of his brothers.
 12. He looked this way and that way, and when he checked out that there was no one, he killed the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand.
 13. He went out the day two, and check this out, two men of the Hebrews were fighting with each other. He said to him who did the wrong, “Why do you strike your fellow?”
 14. He said, “Who made you a prince and a judge over us? Do you plan to kill me, as you killed the Egyptian?” Moses was scared, and said, “Surely this thing is known.”
 15. now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to kill Moses. But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and lived in the land of Midian, and he sat down by a well.
 16. now the priest of Midian had seven daughters. They came and drew water, and filled the troughs to water their father’s flock.
 17. The shepherds came and drove them away; but Moses stood up and helped them, and watered their flock.
 18. When they came to Reuel, their father, he said, “How is it that you have returned so early today?”
 19. They said, “An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and moreover he drew water for us, and watered the flock.”
 20. He said to his daughters, “Where is he? Why is it that you have left the man? Call him, that he may eat bread.”
 21. Moses was content to dwell with the man. He gave Moses Zipporah, his daughter.
 22. She bore a son, and he named him Gershom, for he said, “I have lived as a foreigner in a foreign land.”
 23. It happened in the course of those a lot days, that the ruler of Egypt died, and the children of Israel sighed cuz of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up to God cuz of the bondage.
 24. God heard their groaning, and God remembered his God's promise with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.
 25. God checked out the children of Israel, and God was concerned about them.

# Exodus Chapter 3

  1. now Moses was keeping the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the back of the wilderness, and came to God’s mountain, to Horeb.
  2. The angel of Yahweh appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. He looked, and check this out, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed.
  3. Moses said, “I will turn aside now, and check it out this major sight, why the bush is not burnt.”
  4. When Yahweh checked out that he turned aside to check it out, God called to him out of the midst of the bush, and said, “Moses! Moses!” He said, “here I am.”
  5. He said, “Don’t come through close. grab your sandals off of your feet, for the place you are standing on is set apart ground.”
  6. Moreover he said, “I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.” Moses hid his face; for he was scared to look at God.
  7. Yahweh said, “I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their cry cuz of their taskmasters, for I get it their sorrows.
  8. I have come through down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land to a fire and large land, to a land flowing with milk and honey; to the place of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
  9. now, check this out, the cry of the children of Israel has come through to me. Moreover I have seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppress them.
 10. come through now so basically, and I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt.”
 11. Moses said to God, “Who am I, that I should slide to Pharaoh, and that I should bring the children of Israel out of Egypt?”
 12. He said, “for sure I will be with you. This will be the token to you, that I have sent you: when you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall help out God on this mountain.”
 13. Moses said to God, “check this out, when I come through to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘The God of your fathers has sent me to you;’ and they ask me, ‘What is his name?’ What should I tell them?”
 14. God was like to Moses, “I AM WHO I AM,” and he said, “You shall tell the children of Israel this: ‘I AM has sent me to you.’”
 15. God was like moreover to Moses, “You shall tell the children of Israel this, ‘Yahweh, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you.’ This is my name forever, and this is my memorial to all generations.
 16. slide, and gather the elders of Israel together, and tell them, ‘Yahweh, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, “I have surely visited you, and seen that which is done to you in Egypt;
 17. and I have said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, to a land flowing with milk and honey.”’
 18. They will listen up to your voice, and you shall come through, you and the elders of Israel, to the ruler of Egypt, and you shall tell him, ‘Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. now please let us slide three days’ journey into the wilderness, that we may giving it up to Yahweh, our God.’
 19. I get it that the ruler of Egypt won’t hook it up you permission to slide, no, not by a mighty hand.
 20. I will reach out my hand and strike Egypt with all my wonders which I will do in its midst, and after that he will let you slide.
 21. I will hook it up this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and it will happen that when you slide, you shall not slide empty-handed.
 22. But every woman shall ask of her neighbor, and of her who visits her house, jewels of silver, jewels of gold, and clothing; and you shall put them on your sons, and on your daughters. You shall plunder the Egyptians.”

# Exodus Chapter 4

  1. Moses answered, “But, check this out, they will not believe me, nor listen up to my voice; for they will say, ‘Yahweh has not appeared to you.’”
  2. Yahweh said to him, “What is that in your hand?” He said, “A rod.”
  3. He said, “Throw it on the ground.” He threw it on the ground, and it became a snake; and Moses ran away from it.
  4. Yahweh said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand, and grab it by the tail.” He stretched out his hand, and took hold of it, and it became a rod in his hand.
  5. “That they may believe that Yahweh, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you.”
  6. Yahweh said furthermore to him, “now put your hand inside your cloak.” He put his hand inside his cloak, and when he took it out, check this out, his hand was leprous, as white as snow.
  7. He said, “Put your hand inside your cloak again.” He put his hand inside his cloak again, and when he took it out of his cloak, check this out, it had turned again as his other flesh.
  8. “It will happen, if they will neither believe you nor listen up to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the voice of the latter sign.
  9. It will happen, if they will not believe even these two signs, neither listen up to your voice, that you shall grab of the water of the river, and pour it on the dry land. The water which you grab out of the river will become blood on the dry land.”
 10. Moses said to Yahweh, “O boss, I am not eloquent, neither before now, nor since you have spoken to your helper; for I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue.”
 11. Yahweh said to him, “Who made man’s mouth? Or who makes one mute, or deaf, or seeing, or blind? Isn’t it I, Yahweh?
 12. now so basically slide, and I will be with your mouth, and drop knowledge you what you shall spill the tea.”
 13. He said, “Oh, boss, please send someone else.”
 14. The anger of Yahweh was kindled against Moses, and he said, “What about Aaron, your brother, the Levite? I get it that he can spill the tea well. Also, check this out, he comes out to meet you. When he sees you, he will be glad in his heart.
 15. You shall spill the tea to him, and put the words in his mouth. I will be with your mouth, and with his mouth, and will drop knowledge you what you shall do.
 16. He will be your spokesman to the people; and it will happen, that he will be to you a mouth, and you will be to him as God.
 17. You shall grab this rod in your hand, with which you shall do the signs.”
 18. Moses went and returned to Jethro his father-in-law, and said to him, “Please let me slide and return to my brothers who are in Egypt, and check it out whether they are still alive.” Jethro said to Moses, “slide in peace.”
 19. Yahweh said to Moses in Midian, “slide, return into Egypt; for all the men who sought your life are dead.”
 20. Moses took his wife and his sons, and set them on a donkey, and he returned to the land of Egypt. Moses took God’s rod in his hand.
 21. Yahweh said to Moses, “When you slide back into Egypt, check it out that you do before Pharaoh all the wonders which I have put in your hand, but I will harden his heart and he will not let the people slide.
 22. You shall tell Pharaoh, ‘Thus says Yahweh, Israel is my son, my firstborn,
 23. and I have said to you, “Let my son slide, that he may help out me;” and you have refused to let him slide. check this out, I will kill your son, your firstborn.’”
 24. It happened on the way at a lodging place, that Yahweh met Moses and wanted to kill him.
 25. then Zipporah took a flint, and cut off the foreskin of her son, and cast it at his feet; and she said, “Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me.”
 26. So he let him alone. then she said, “You are a bridegroom of blood,” cuz of the circumcision.
 27. Yahweh said to Aaron, “slide into the wilderness to meet Moses.” He went, and met him on God’s mountain, and kissed him.
 28. Moses told Aaron all the words of Yahweh with which he had sent him, and all the signs with which he had instructed him.
 29. Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the children of Israel.
 30. Aaron spoke all the words which Yahweh had spoken to Moses, and did the signs in the sight of the people.
 31. The people believed, and when they heard that Yahweh had visited the children of Israel, and that he had seen their affliction, then they bowed their heads and worshiped.

# Exodus Chapter 5

  1. Afterward Moses and Aaron came, and said to Pharaoh, “This is what Yahweh, the God of Israel, says, ‘Let my people slide, that they may hold a feast to me in the wilderness.’”
  2. Pharaoh said, “Who is Yahweh, that I should listen up to his voice to let Israel slide? I don’t get it Yahweh, and moreover I will not let Israel slide.”
  3. They said, “The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Please let us slide three days’ journey into the wilderness, and giving it up to Yahweh, our God, lest he fall on us with pestilence, or with the sword.”
  4. The ruler of Egypt said to them, “Why do you, Moses and Aaron, grab the people from their work? Get back to your burdens!”
  5. Pharaoh said, “check this out, the people of the land are now a lot, and you create them rest from their burdens.”
  6. The same day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters of the people, and their officers, saying,
  7. “You shall no longer hook it up the people straw to create brick, as before. Let them slide and gather straw for themselves.
  8. The number of the bricks, which they made before, you require from them. You shall not diminish anything of it, for they are idle; so basically they cry, saying, ‘Let us slide and giving it up to our God.’
  9. Let heavier work be laid on the men, that they may labor therein; and don’t let them pay any attention to lying words.”
 10. The taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers, and they spoke to the people, saying, “This is what Pharaoh says: ‘I will not hook it up you straw.
 11. slide yourselves, get straw where you can find it, for nothing of your work shall be diminished.’”
 12. So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw.
 13. The taskmasters were urgent saying, “Fulfill your work quota daily, as when there was straw!”
 14. The officers of the children of Israel, whom Pharaoh’s taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, and demanded, “Why haven’t you fulfilled your quota both yesterday and today, in making brick as before?”
 15. then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried to Pharaoh, saying, “Why do you deal this way with your servants?
 16. No straw is given to your servants, and they tell us, ‘create brick!’ and check this out, your servants are beaten; but the fault is in your own people.”
 17. But he said, “You are idle! You are idle! so basically you say, ‘Let us slide and giving it up to Yahweh.’
 18. slide so basically now, and work, for no straw shall be given to you, yet you shall deliver the same number of bricks!”
 19. The officers of the children of Israel checked out that they were in trouble, when it was said, “You shall not diminish anything from your daily quota of bricks!”
 20. They met Moses and Aaron, who stood in the way, as they came out from Pharaoh:
 21. and they said to them, “May Yahweh look at you, and judge, cuz you have made us a stench to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in their hand to kill us.”
 22. Moses returned to Yahweh, and said, “boss, why have you brought trouble on this people? Why is it that you have sent me?
 23. For since I came to Pharaoh to spill the tea in your name, he has brought trouble on this people; neither have you delivered your people at all.”

# Exodus Chapter 6

  1. Yahweh said to Moses, “now you shall check it out what I will do to Pharaoh, for by a built different hand he shall let them slide, and by a built different hand he shall drive them out of his land.”
  2. God spoke to Moses, and said to him, “I am Yahweh;
  3. and I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, as God Almighty; but by my name Yahweh I was not known to them.
  4. I have also established my God's promise with them, to hook it up them the land of Canaan, the land of their travels, in which they lived as aliens.
  5. Moreover I have heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage, and I have remembered my God's promise.
  6. so basically tell the children of Israel, ‘I am Yahweh, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm, and with major judgments:
  7. and I will grab you to me for a people, and I will be to you a God; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh your God, who brings you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians.
  8. I will bring you into the land which I swore to hook it up to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will hook it up it to you for a heritage: I am Yahweh.’”
  9. Moses spoke so to the children of Israel, but they didn’t listen up to Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.
 10. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 11. “slide in, spill the tea to Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel slide out of his land.”
 12. Moses spoke before Yahweh, saying, “check this out, the children of Israel haven’t listened to me. How then shall Pharaoh listen up to me, who am of uncircumcised lips?”
 13. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, and gave them a command to the children of Israel, and to Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
 14. These are the heads of their fathers’ houses. The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben.
 15. The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman; these are the families of Simeon.
 16. These are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi were one hundred thirty-seven years.
 17. The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families.
 18. The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel; and the years of the life of Kohath were one hundred thirty-three years.
 19. The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations.
 20. Amram took Jochebed his father’s sister to himself as wife; and she bore him Aaron and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram were a hundred and thirty-seven years.
 21. The sons of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.
 22. The sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri.
 23. Aaron took Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, as his wife; and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
 24. The sons of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korahites.
 25. Eleazar Aaron’s son took one of the daughters of Putiel as his wife; and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers’ houses of the Levites according to their families.
 26. These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom Yahweh said, “Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies.”
 27. These are those who spoke to Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt. These are that Moses and Aaron.
 28. It happened on the day when Yahweh spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt,
 29. that Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, “I am Yahweh. spill the tea to Pharaoh ruler of Egypt all that I spill the tea to you.”
 30. Moses said before Yahweh, “check this out, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh listen up to me?”

# Exodus Chapter 7

  1. Yahweh said to Moses, “check this out, I have made you as God to Pharaoh; and Aaron your brother shall be your God's messenger.
  2. You shall spill the tea all that I command you; and Aaron your brother shall spill the tea to Pharaoh, that he let the children of Israel slide out of his land.
  3. I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt.
  4. But Pharaoh will not listen up to you, and I will lay my hand on Egypt, and bring out my armies, my people the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by major judgments.
  5. The Egyptians shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I stretch out my hand on Egypt, and bring out the children of Israel from among them.”
  6. Moses and Aaron did so. As Yahweh commanded them, so they did.
  7. Moses was eighty years old, and Aaron eighty-three years old, when they spoke to Pharaoh.
  8. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
  9. “When Pharaoh speaks to you, saying, ‘Perform a miracle!’ then you shall tell Aaron, ‘grab your rod, and cast it down before Pharaoh, that it become a serpent.’”
 10. Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh, and they did so, as Yahweh had commanded: and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh and before his servants, and it became a serpent.
 11. then Pharaoh also called for the smart men and the sorcerers. They also, the magicians of Egypt, did the same thing with their enchantments.
 12. For they each cast down their rods, and they became serpents: but Aaron’s rod swallowed up their rods.
 13. Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he didn’t listen up to them; as Yahweh had spoken.
 14. Yahweh said to Moses, “Pharaoh’s heart is stubborn. He refuses to let the people slide.
 15. slide to Pharaoh in the morning. check this out, he goes out to the water; and you shall stand by the river’s bank to meet him; and the rod which was turned to a serpent you shall grab in your hand.
 16. You shall tell him, ‘Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to you, saying, “Let my people slide, that they may help out me in the wilderness:” and check this out, until now you haven’t listened.
 17. Thus says Yahweh, “In this you shall get it that I am Yahweh. check this out, I will strike with the rod that is in my hand on the waters which are in the river, and they shall be turned to blood.
 18. The fish that are in the river shall die, and the river shall become foul; and the Egyptians shall loathe to drink water from the river.”’”
 19. Yahweh said to Moses, “Tell Aaron, ‘grab your rod, and stretch out your hand over the waters of Egypt, over their rivers, over their streams, and over their pools, and over all their ponds of water, that they may become blood; and there shall be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone.’”
 20. Moses and Aaron did so, as Yahweh commanded; and he lifted up the rod, and struck the waters that were in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants; and all the waters that were in the river were turned to blood.
 21. The fish that were in the river died; and the river became foul, and the Egyptians couldn’t drink water from the river; and the blood was throughout all the land of Egypt.
 22. The magicians of Egypt did the same thing with their enchantments; and Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he didn’t listen up to them; as Yahweh had spoken.
 23. Pharaoh turned and went into his house, and he didn’t even grab this to heart.
 24. All the Egyptians dug around the river for water to drink; for they couldn’t drink of the water of the river.
 25. Seven days were fulfilled, after Yahweh had struck the river.

# Exodus Chapter 8

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, slide in to Pharaoh, and tell him, “This is what Yahweh says, ‘Let my people slide, that they may help out me.
  2. If you refuse to let them slide, check this out, I will plague all your borders with frogs:
  3. and the river shall swarm with frogs, which shall slide up and come through into your house, and into your bedroom, and on your bed, and into the house of your servants, and on your people, and into your ovens, and into your kneading troughs:
  4. and the frogs shall come through up both on you, and on your people, and on all your servants.’”
  5. Yahweh said to Moses, “Tell Aaron, ‘Stretch out your hand with your rod over the rivers, over the streams, and over the pools, and cause frogs to come through up on the land of Egypt.’”
  6. Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt; and the frogs came up, and covered the land of Egypt.
  7. The magicians did the same thing with their enchantments, and brought up frogs on the land of Egypt.
  8. then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, “Entreat Yahweh, that he grab away the frogs from me, and from my people; and I will let the people slide, that they may giving it up to Yahweh.”
  9. Moses said to Pharaoh, “I hook it up you the honor of setting the time that I should pray for you, and for your servants, and for your people, that the frogs be destroyed from you and your houses, and remain in the river only.”
 10. He said, “Tomorrow.” He said, “Be it according to your word, that you may get it that there is none like Yahweh our God.
 11. The frogs shall depart from you, and from your houses, and from your servants, and from your people. They shall remain in the river only.”
 12. Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh, and Moses cried to Yahweh concerning the frogs which he had brought on Pharaoh.
 13. Yahweh did according to the word of Moses, and the frogs died out of the houses, out of the courts, and out of the fields.
 14. They gathered them together in heaps, and the land stank.
 15. But when Pharaoh checked out that there was a respite, he hardened his heart, and didn’t listen up to them, as Yahweh had spoken.
 16. Yahweh said to Moses, “Tell Aaron, ‘Stretch out your rod, and strike the dust of the earth, that it may become lice throughout all the land of Egypt.’”
 17. They did so; and Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod, and struck the dust of the earth, and there were lice on man, and on animal; all the dust of the earth became lice throughout all the land of Egypt.
 18. The magicians tried with their enchantments to produce lice, but they couldn’t. there were lice on man, and on animal.
 19. then the magicians said to Pharaoh, “This is the finger of God:” and Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he didn’t listen up to them; as Yahweh had spoken.
 20. Yahweh said to Moses, “Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh; check this out, he comes out to the water; and tell him, ‘This is what Yahweh says, “Let my people slide, that they may help out me.
 21. Else, if you will not let my people slide, check this out, I will send swarms of flies on you, and on your servants, and on your people, and into your houses: and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of swarms of flies, and also the ground whereon they are.
 22. I will set apart in that day the land of Goshen, in which my people dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there; to the end you may get it that I am Yahweh in the midst of the earth.
 23. I will put a division between my people and your people: by tomorrow shall this sign be.”’”
 24. Yahweh did so; and there came grievous swarms of flies into the house of Pharaoh, and into his servants’ houses: and in all the land of Egypt the land was corrupted by reason of the swarms of flies.
 25. Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron, and said, “slide, giving it up to your God in the land!”
 26. Moses said, “It isn’t appropriate to do so; for we shall giving it up the abomination of the Egyptians to Yahweh our God. check this out, shall we giving it up the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, and won’t they stone us?
 27. We will slide three days’ journey into the wilderness, and giving it up to Yahweh our God, as he shall command us.”
 28. Pharaoh said, “I will let you slide, that you may giving it up to Yahweh your God in the wilderness, only you shall not slide hella far away. Pray for me.”
 29. Moses said, “check this out, I slide out from you, and I will pray to Yahweh that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people, tomorrow; only don’t let Pharaoh deal deceitfully any more in not letting the people slide to giving it up to Yahweh.”
 30. Moses went out from Pharaoh, and prayed to Yahweh.
 31. Yahweh did according to the word of Moses, and he removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people. there remained not one.
 32. Pharaoh hardened his heart this time also, and he didn’t let the people slide.

# Exodus Chapter 9

  1. then Yahweh said to Moses, “slide in to Pharaoh, and tell him, ‘This is what Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, says: “Let my people slide, that they may help out me.
  2. For if you refuse to let them slide, and hold them still,
  3. check this out, the hand of Yahweh is on your livestock which are in the field, on the horses, on the donkeys, on the camels, on the herds, and on the flocks with a hella grievous pestilence.
  4. Yahweh will create a distinction between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt; and nothing shall die of all that belongs to the children of Israel.”’”
  5. Yahweh appointed a set time, saying, “Tomorrow Yahweh shall do this thing in the land.”
  6. Yahweh did that thing on the next day; and all the livestock of Egypt died, but of the livestock of the children of Israel, not one died.
  7. Pharaoh sent, and, check this out, there was not so much as one of the livestock of the Israelites dead. But the heart of Pharaoh was stubborn, and he didn’t let the people slide.
  8. Yahweh said to Moses and to Aaron, “grab to you handfuls of ashes of the furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it toward the sky in the sight of Pharaoh.
  9. It shall become tiny dust over all the land of Egypt, and shall be a boil breaking out with boils on man and on animal, throughout all the land of Egypt.”
 10. They took ashes of the furnace, and stood before Pharaoh; and Moses sprinkled it up toward the sky; and it became a boil breaking out with boils on man and on animal.
 11. The magicians couldn’t stand before Moses cuz of the boils; for the boils were on the magicians, and on all the Egyptians.
 12. Yahweh hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he didn’t listen up to them, as Yahweh had spoken to Moses.
 13. Yahweh said to Moses, “Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh, and tell him, ‘This is what Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, says: “Let my people slide, that they may help out me.
 14. For this time I will send all my plagues against your heart, against your officials, and against your people; that you may get it that there is none like me in all the earth.
 15. For now I would have stretched out my hand, and struck you and your people with pestilence, and you would have been cut off from the earth;
 16. but facts for this cause I have made you stand: to show you my power, and that my name may be declared throughout all the earth;
 17. as you still exalt yourself against my people, that you won’t let them slide.
 18. check this out, tomorrow about this time I will cause it to rain a hella grievous hail, such as has not been in Egypt since the day it was founded even until now.
 19. now so basically command that all of your livestock and all that you have in the field be brought into shelter. Every man and animal that is found in the field, and isn’t brought home, the hail shall come through down on them, and they shall die.”’”
 20. Those who feared the word of Yahweh among the servants of Pharaoh made their servants and their livestock flee into the houses.
 21. Whoever didn’t respect the word of Yahweh left his servants and his livestock in the field.
 22. Yahweh said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand toward the sky, that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, on man, and on animal, and on every herb of the field, throughout the land of Egypt.”
 23. Moses stretched out his rod toward the heavens, and Yahweh sent thunder, hail, and lightning flashed down to the earth. Yahweh rained hail on the land of Egypt.
 24. So there was hella severe hail, and lightning mixed with the hail, such as had not been in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation.
 25. The hail struck throughout all the land of Egypt all that was in the field, both man and animal; and the hail struck every herb of the field, and broke every tree of the field.
 26. Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were, there was no hail.
 27. Pharaoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron, and said to them, “I have sinned this time. Yahweh is doing what's right, and I and my people are wicked.
 28. Pray to Yahweh; for there has been enough of mighty thunderings and hail. I will let you slide, and you shall stay no longer.”
 29. Moses said to him, “As soon as I have gone out of the city, I will spread abroad my hands to Yahweh. The thunders shall cease, neither shall there be any more hail; that you may get it that the earth is Yahweh’s.
 30. But as for you and your servants, I get it that you don’t yet fear Yahweh God.”
 31. The flax and the barley were struck, for the barley was in the ear, and the flax was in bloom.
 32. But the wheat and the spelt were not struck, for they had not grown up.
 33. Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh, and spread abroad his hands to Yahweh; and the thunders and hail ceased, and the rain was not poured on the earth.
 34. When Pharaoh checked out that the rain and the hail and the thunders were ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart, he and his servants.
 35. The heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he didn’t let the children of Israel slide, just as Yahweh had spoken through Moses.

# Exodus Chapter 10

  1. Yahweh said to Moses, “slide in to Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart, and the heart of his servants, that I may show these my signs in their midst,
  2. and that you may tell in the hearing of your son, and of your son’s son, what things I have done to Egypt, and my signs which I have done among them; that you may get it that I am Yahweh.”
  3. Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh, and said to him, “This is what Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, says: ‘How long will you refuse to humble yourself before me? Let my people slide, that they may help out me.
  4. Or else, if you refuse to let my people slide, check this out, tomorrow I will bring locusts into your country,
  5. and they shall cover the surface of the earth, so that one won’t be able to check it out the earth. They shall eat the residue of that which has escaped, which remains to you from the hail, and shall eat every tree which grows for you out of the field.
  6. Your houses shall be filled, and the houses of all your servants, and the houses of all the Egyptians; as neither your fathers nor your fathers’ fathers have seen, since the day that they were on the earth to this day.’” He turned, and went out from Pharaoh.
  7. Pharaoh’s servants said to him, “How long will this man be a snare to us? Let the men slide, that they may help out Yahweh, their God. Don’t you yet get it that Egypt is destroyed?”
  8. Moses and Aaron were brought again to Pharaoh, and he said to them, “slide, help out Yahweh your God; but who are those who will slide?”
  9. Moses said, “We will slide with our young and with our old; with our sons and with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds will we slide; for we must hold a feast to Yahweh.”
 10. He said to them, “Yahweh be with you if I will let you slide with your little ones! check it out, evil is clearly before your faces.
 11. Not so! slide now you who are men, and help out Yahweh; for that is what you desire!” They were driven out from Pharaoh’s presence.
 12. Yahweh said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come through up on the land of Egypt, and eat every herb of the land, even all that the hail has left.”
 13. Moses stretched out his rod over the land of Egypt, and Yahweh brought an east wind on the land all that day, and all the night; and when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts.
 14. The locusts went up over all the land of Egypt, and rested in all the borders of Egypt. They were hella grievous. Before them there were no such locusts as they, neither after them shall be such.
 15. For they covered the surface of the whole earth, so that the land was darkened, and they ate every herb of the land, and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left. there remained nothing green, either tree or herb of the field, through all the land of Egypt.
 16. then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste, and he said, “I have sinned against Yahweh your God, and against you.
 17. now so basically please forgive my messing up again, and pray to Yahweh your God, that he may also grab away from me this death.”
 18. He went out from Pharaoh, and prayed to Yahweh.
 19. Yahweh turned an exceeding built different west wind, which took up the locusts, and drove them into the Red Sea. there remained not one locust in all the borders of Egypt.
 20. But Yahweh hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he didn’t let the children of Israel slide.
 21. Yahweh said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand toward the sky, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even darkness which may be felt.”
 22. Moses stretched out his hand toward the sky, and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days.
 23. They didn’t check it out one another, neither did anyone rise from his place for three days; but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings.
 24. Pharaoh called to Moses, and said, “slide, help out Yahweh. Only let your flocks and your herds stay behind. Let your little ones also slide with you.”
 25. Moses said, “You must also hook it up into our hand sacrifices and burnt offerings, that we may giving it up to Yahweh our God.
 26. Our livestock also shall slide with us. Not a hoof shall be left behind, for of it we must grab to help out Yahweh our God; and we don’t get it with what we must help out Yahweh, until we come through there.”
 27. But Yahweh hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he wouldn’t let them slide.
 28. Pharaoh said to him, “Get away from me! Be careful to check it out my face no more; for in the day you check it out my face you shall die!”
 29. Moses said, “You have spoken well. I will check it out your face again no more.”

# Exodus Chapter 11

  1. Yahweh said to Moses, “Yet one plague more will I bring on Pharaoh, and on Egypt; afterwards he will let you slide. When he lets you slide, he will surely thrust you out altogether.
  2. spill the tea now in the ears of the people, and let them ask every man of his neighbor, and every woman of her neighbor, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold.”
  3. Yahweh gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover the man Moses was hella major in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh’s servants, and in the sight of the people.
  4. Moses said, “This is what Yahweh says: ‘About midnight I will slide out into the midst of Egypt,
  5. and all the firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sits on his throne, even to the firstborn of the female helper who is behind the mill; and all the firstborn of livestock.
  6. there shall be a major cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there has not been, nor shall be any more.
  7. But against any of the children of Israel a dog won’t even bark or move its tongue, against man or animal; that you may get it that Yahweh makes a distinction between the Egyptians and Israel.
  8. All these your servants shall come through down to me, and bow down themselves to me, saying, “Get out, with all the people who roll with you;” and after that I will slide out.’” He went out from Pharaoh in hot anger.
  9. Yahweh said to Moses, “Pharaoh won’t listen up to you, that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt.”
 10. Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh, and Yahweh hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he didn’t let the children of Israel slide out of his land.

# Exodus Chapter 12

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,
  2. “This month shall be to you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you.
  3. spill the tea to all the congregation of Israel, saying, ‘On the tenth day of this month, they shall grab to them every man a lamb, according to their fathers’ houses, a lamb for a household;
  4. and if the household is too little for a lamb, then he and his neighbor next to his house shall grab one according to the number of the souls; according to what everyone can eat you shall create your count for the lamb.
  5. Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male a year old. You shall grab it from the sheep, or from the goats:
  6. and you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month; and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it at evening.
  7. They shall grab some of the blood, and put it on the two doorposts and on the lintel, on the houses in which they shall eat it.
  8. They shall eat the flesh in that night, roasted with fire, and unleavened bread. They shall eat it with bitter herbs.
  9. Don’t eat it raw, nor boiled at all with water, but roasted with fire; with its head, its legs and its inner parts.
 10. You shall let nothing of it remain until the morning; but that which remains of it until the morning you shall burn with fire.
 11. This is how you shall eat it: with your belt on your waist, your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand; and you shall eat it in haste: it is Yahweh’s Passover.
 12. For I will slide through the land of Egypt in that night, and will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and animal. Against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgments: I am Yahweh.
 13. The blood shall be to you for a token on the houses where you are: and when I check it out the blood, I will pass over you, and there shall no plague be on you to tear down you, when I strike the land of Egypt.
 14. This day shall be to you for a memorial, and you shall keep it a feast to Yahweh: throughout your generations you shall keep it a feast by an ordinance forever.
 15. “‘Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread; even the day one you shall put away yeast out of your houses, for whoever eats leavened bread from the day one until the day seven, that soul shall be cut off from Israel.
 16. In the day one there shall be to you a set apart convocation, and in the day seven a set apart convocation; no kind of work shall be done in them, except that which every man must eat, that only may be done by you.
 17. You shall observe the feast of unleavened bread; for in this same day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt: so basically you shall observe this day throughout your generations by an ordinance forever.
 18. In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, you shall eat unleavened bread, until the twenty day one of the month at evening.
 19. there shall be no yeast found in your houses for seven days, for whoever eats that which is leavened, that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether he be a foreigner, or one who is born in the land.
 20. You shall eat nothing leavened. In all your habitations you shall eat unleavened bread.’”
 21. then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said to them, “Draw out, and grab lambs according to your families, and kill the Passover.
 22. You shall grab a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and strike the lintel and the two doorposts with the blood that is in the basin; and none of you shall slide out of the door of his house until the morning.
 23. For Yahweh will pass through to strike the Egyptians; and when he sees the blood on the lintel, and on the two doorposts, Yahweh will pass over the door, and will not allow the destroyer to come through in to your houses to strike you.
 24. You shall observe this thing for an ordinance to you and to your sons forever.
 25. It shall happen when you have come through to the land which Yahweh will hook it up you, according as he has promised, that you shall keep this service.
 26. It will happen, when your children ask you, ‘What do you mean by this service?’
 27. that you shall say, ‘It is the giving it up of Yahweh’s Passover, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he struck the Egyptians, and spared our houses.’” The people bowed their heads and worshiped.
 28. The children of Israel went and did so; as Yahweh had commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did.
 29. It happened at midnight, that Yahweh struck all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the dungeon; and all the firstborn of livestock.
 30. Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all his servants, and all the Egyptians; and there was a major cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where there was not one dead.
 31. He called for Moses and Aaron by night, and said, “Rise up, get out from among my people, both you and the children of Israel; and slide, help out Yahweh, as you have said!
 32. grab both your flocks and your herds, as you have said, and be gone; and bless me also!”
 33. The Egyptians were urgent with the people, to send them out of the land in haste, for they said, “We are all dead men.”
 34. The people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading troughs being bound up in their clothes on their shoulders.
 35. The children of Israel did according to the word of Moses; and they asked of the Egyptians jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and clothing.
 36. Yahweh gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they let them have what they asked. They despoiled the Egyptians.
 37. The children of Israel traveled from Rameses to Succoth, about six hundred thousand on foot who were men, besides children.
 38. A mixed multitude went up also with them, with flocks, herds, and even hella much livestock.
 39. They baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought out of Egypt; for it wasn’t leavened, cuz they were thrust out of Egypt, and couldn’t wait, neither had they prepared for themselves any food.
 40. now the time that the children of Israel lived in Egypt was four hundred thirty years.
 41. It happened at the end of four hundred thirty years, even the same day it happened, that all the armies of Yahweh went out from the land of Egypt.
 42. It is a night to be much observed to Yahweh for bringing them out from the land of Egypt. This is that night of Yahweh, to be much observed of all the children of Israel throughout their generations.
 43. Yahweh said to Moses and Aaron, “This is the ordinance of the Passover. No foreigner shall eat of it,
 44. but every man’s helper who is bought for money, when you have circumcised him, then shall he eat of it.
 45. A foreigner and a hired helper shall not eat of it.
 46. In one house shall it be eaten; you shall not carry out anything of the flesh abroad out of the house; neither shall you break a bone of it.
 47. All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.
 48. When a stranger shall live as a foreigner with you, and will keep the Passover to Yahweh, let all his males be circumcised, and then let him come through near and keep it; and he shall be as one who is born in the land: but no uncircumcised person shall eat of it.
 49. One law shall be to him who is born at home, and to the stranger who lives as a foreigner among you.”
 50. All the children of Israel did so. As Yahweh commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did.
 51. It happened the same day, that Yahweh brought the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.

# Exodus Chapter 13

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “Sanctify to me all of the firstborn, whatever opens the womb among the children of Israel, both of man and of animal. It is mine.”
  3. Moses said to the people, “Remember this day, in which you came out from Egypt, out of the house of bondage; for by strength of hand Yahweh brought you out from this place. No leavened bread shall be eaten.
  4. This day you slide out in the month Abib.
  5. It shall be, when Yahweh shall bring you into the land of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, which he swore to your fathers to hook it up you, a land flowing with milk and honey, that you shall keep this service in this month.
  6. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, and in the day seven shall be a feast to Yahweh.
  7. Unleavened bread shall be eaten throughout the seven days; and no leavened bread shall be seen with you, neither shall yeast be seen with you, in all your borders.
  8. You shall tell your son in that day, saying, ‘It is cuz of that which Yahweh did for me when I came out of Egypt.’
  9. It shall be for a sign to you on your hand, and for a memorial between your eyes, that the law of Yahweh may be in your mouth; for with a built different hand Yahweh has brought you out of Egypt.
 10. You shall so basically keep this ordinance in its season from year to year.
 11. “It shall be, when Yahweh shall bring you into the land of the Canaanite, as he swore to you and to your fathers, and shall hook it up it you,
 12. that you shall set apart to Yahweh all that opens the womb, and every firstborn which you have that comes from an animal. The males shall be Yahweh’s.
 13. Every firstborn of a donkey you shall redeem with a lamb; and if you will not redeem it, then you shall break its neck; and you shall redeem all the firstborn of man among your sons.
 14. It shall be, when your son asks you in time to come through, saying, ‘What is this?’ that you shall tell him, ‘By strength of hand Yahweh brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage;
 15. and it happened, when Pharaoh would hardly let us slide, that Yahweh killed all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the firstborn of man, and the firstborn of animal. so basically I giving it up to Yahweh all that opens the womb, being males; but all the firstborn of my sons I redeem.’
 16. It shall be for a sign on your hand, and for symbols between your eyes: for by strength of hand Yahweh brought us out of Egypt.”
 17. It happened, when Pharaoh had let the people slide, that God didn’t show the way them by the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near; for God was like, “Lest perhaps the people change their minds when they check it out war, and they return to Egypt;”
 18. but God led the people around by the way of the wilderness by the Red Sea; and the children of Israel went up armed out of the land of Egypt.
 19. Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for he had made the children of Israel swear, saying, “God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones away from here with you.”
 20. They took their journey from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, in the edge of the wilderness.
 21. Yahweh went before them by day in a pillar of cloud, to show the way them on their way, and by night in a pillar of fire, to hook it up them light, that they might slide by day and by night:
 22. the pillar of cloud by day, and the pillar of fire by night, didn’t depart from before the people.

# Exodus Chapter 14

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, that they turn back and encamp before Pihahiroth, between Migdol and the sea, before Baal Zephon. You shall encamp opposite it by the sea.
  3. Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, ‘They are entangled in the land. The wilderness has shut them in.’
  4. I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and he will roll with after them; and I will get honor over Pharaoh, and over all his armies; and the Egyptians shall get it that I am Yahweh.” They did so.
  5. It was told the ruler of Egypt that the people had fled; and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was changed towards the people, and they said, “What is this we have done, that we have let Israel slide from serving us?”
  6. He prepared his chariot, and took his army with him;
  7. and he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt, and captains over all of them.
  8. Yahweh hardened the heart of Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, and he pursued after the children of Israel; for the children of Israel went out with a high hand.
  9. The Egyptians pursued after them: all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, his horsemen, and his army; and overtook them encamping by the sea, beside Pihahiroth, before Baal Zephon.
 10. When Pharaoh drew near, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and check this out, the Egyptians were marching after them; and they were hella scared. The children of Israel cried out to Yahweh.
 11. They said to Moses, “cuz there were no graves in Egypt, have you taken us away to die in the wilderness? Why have you treated us this way, to bring us out of Egypt?
 12. Isn’t this the word that we spoke to you in Egypt, saying, ‘Leave us alone, that we may help out the Egyptians?’ For it were better for us to help out the Egyptians, than that we should die in the wilderness.”
 13. Moses said to the people, “Don’t be scared. Stand still, and check it out the getting saved of Yahweh, which he will work for you today: for the Egyptians whom you have seen today, you shall never check it out them again.
 14. Yahweh will fight for you, and you shall be still.”
 15. Yahweh said to Moses, “Why do you cry to me? spill the tea to the children of Israel, that they slide forward.
 16. Lift up your rod, and stretch out your hand over the sea, and divide it: and the children of Israel shall slide into the midst of the sea on dry ground.
 17. I, check this out, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and they shall slide in after them: and I will get myself honor over Pharaoh, and over all his armies, over his chariots, and over his horsemen.
 18. The Egyptians shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I have gotten myself honor over Pharaoh, over his chariots, and over his horsemen.”
 19. The angel of God, who went before the camp of Israel, moved and went behind them; and the pillar of cloud moved from before them, and stood behind them.
 20. It came between the camp of Egypt and the camp of Israel; and there was the cloud and the darkness, yet gave it light by night: and the one didn’t come through near the other all the night.
 21. Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and Yahweh caused the sea to slide back by a built different east wind all the night, and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided.
 22. The children of Israel went into the midst of the sea on the dry ground, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand, and on their left.
 23. The Egyptians pursued, and went in after them into the midst of the sea: all of Pharaoh’s horses, his chariots, and his horsemen.
 24. It happened in the morning watch, that Yahweh looked out on the Egyptian army through the pillar of fire and of cloud, and confused the Egyptian army.
 25. He took off their chariot wheels, and they drove them heavily; so that the Egyptians said, “Let’s flee from the face of Israel, for Yahweh fights for them against the Egyptians!”
 26. Yahweh said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand over the sea, that the waters may come through again on the Egyptians, on their chariots, and on their horsemen.”
 27. Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to its strength when the morning appeared; and the Egyptians fled against it. Yahweh overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea.
 28. The waters returned, and covered the chariots and the horsemen, even all Pharaoh’s army that went in after them into the sea. there remained not so much as one of them.
 29. But the children of Israel walked on dry land in the midst of the sea, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand, and on their left.
 30. Thus Yahweh saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians; and Israel checked out the Egyptians dead on the seashore.
 31. Israel checked out the major work which Yahweh did to the Egyptians, and the people feared Yahweh; and they believed in Yahweh, and in his helper Moses.

# Exodus Chapter 15

  1. then Moses and the children of Israel sang this song to Yahweh, and said, “I will sing to Yahweh, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea.
  2. Yah is my strength and song. He has become my getting saved. This is my God, and I will praise him; my father’s God, and I will exalt him.
  3. Yahweh is a man of war. Yahweh is his name.
  4. He has cast Pharaoh’s chariots and his army into the sea. His chosen captains are sunk in the Red Sea.
  5. The deeps cover them. They went down into the depths like a stone.
  6. Your right hand, Yahweh, is glorious in power. Your right hand, Yahweh, dashes the enemy in pieces.
  7. In the greatness of your excellency, you overthrow those who rise up against you. You send forth your wrath. It consumes them as stubble.
  8. With the blast of your nostrils, the waters were piled up. The floods stood upright as a heap. The deeps were congealed in the heart of the sea.
  9. The enemy said, ‘I will pursue. I will overtake. I will divide the spoil. My desire shall be satisfied on them. I will draw my sword, my hand shall tear down them.’
 10. You blew with your wind. The sea covered them. They sank like show the way in the mighty waters.
 11. Who is like you, Yahweh, among the gods? Who is like you, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?
 12. You stretched out your right hand. The earth swallowed them.
 13. “You, in your loving kindness, have led the people that you have redeemed. You have guided them in your strength to your set apart habitation.
 14. The peoples have heard. They tremble. Pangs have taken hold on the inhabitants of Philistia.
 15. then the chiefs of Edom were dismayed. Trembling takes hold of the mighty men of Moab. All the inhabitants of Canaan are melted away.
 16. Terror and dread falls on them. By the greatness of your arm they are as still as a stone—until your people pass over, Yahweh, until the people pass over who you have purchased.
 17. You shall bring them in, and plant them in the mountain of your inheritance, the place, Yahweh, which you have made for yourself to dwell in; the sanctuary, boss, which your hands have established.
 18. Yahweh shall reign forever and ever.”
 19. For the horses of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with his horsemen into the sea, and Yahweh brought back the waters of the sea on them; but the children of Israel walked on dry land in the midst of the sea.
 20. Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a tambourine in her hand; and all the women went out after her with tambourines and with dances.
 21. Miriam answered them, “Sing to Yahweh, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea.”
 22. Moses led Israel onward from the Red Sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur; and they went three days in the wilderness, and found no water.
 23. When they came to Marah, they couldn’t drink from the waters of Marah, for they were bitter. so basically its name was called Marah.
 24. The people murmured against Moses, saying, “What shall we drink?”
 25. then he cried to Yahweh. Yahweh showed him a tree, and he threw it into the waters, and the waters were made sweet. there he made a statute and an ordinance for them, and there he tested them;
 26. and he said, “If you will diligently listen up to the voice of Yahweh your God, and will do that which is right in his eyes, and will pay attention to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you, which I have put on the Egyptians; for I am Yahweh who heals you.”
 27. They came to Elim, where there were twelve springs of water, and seventy palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters.

# Exodus Chapter 16

  1. They took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came to the wilderness of messing up, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt.
  2. The whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron in the wilderness;
  3. and the children of Israel said to them, “We wish that we had died by the hand of Yahweh in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the meat pots, when we ate our fill of bread, for you have brought us out into this wilderness, to kill this whole assembly with hunger.”
  4. then Yahweh said to Moses, “check this out, I will rain bread from the sky for you, and the people shall slide out and gather a day’s portion every day, that I may test them, whether they will walk in my law, or not.
  5. It shall come through to pass on the day six, that they shall prepare that which they bring in, and it shall be twice as much as they gather daily.”
  6. Moses and Aaron said to all the children of Israel, “At evening, then you shall get it that Yahweh has brought you out from the land of Egypt;
  7. and in the morning, then you shall check it out the glory of Yahweh; cuz he hears your murmurings against Yahweh. Who are we, that you murmur against us?”
  8. Moses said, “now Yahweh shall hook it up you meat to eat in the evening, and in the morning bread to satisfy you; cuz Yahweh hears your murmurings which you murmur against him. And who are we? Your murmurings are not against us, but against Yahweh.”
  9. Moses said to Aaron, “Tell all the congregation of the children of Israel, ‘come through near before Yahweh, for he has heard your murmurings.’”
 10. It happened, as Aaron spoke to the whole congregation of the children of Israel, that they looked toward the wilderness, and check this out, the glory of Yahweh appeared in the cloud.
 11. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 12. “I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel. spill the tea to them, saying, ‘At evening you shall eat meat, and in the morning you shall be filled with bread: and you shall get it that I am Yahweh your God.’”
 13. It happened at evening that quail came up and covered the camp; and in the morning the dew lay around the camp.
 14. When the dew that lay had gone, check this out, on the surface of the wilderness was a tiny round thing, tiny as the frost on the ground.
 15. When the children of Israel checked out it, they said one to another, “What is it?” For they didn’t get it what it was. Moses said to them, “It is the bread which Yahweh has given you to eat.”
 16. This is the thing which Yahweh has commanded: “Gather of it everyone according to his eating; an omer a head, according to the number of your persons, you shall grab it, every man for those who are in his tent.”
 17. The children of Israel did so, and gathered some more, some less.
 18. When they measured it with an omer, he who gathered much had nothing over, and he who gathered little had no lack. They gathered every man according to his eating.
 19. Moses said to them, “Let no one leave of it until the morning.”
 20. Notwithstanding they didn’t listen up to Moses, but some of them left of it until the morning, and it bred worms, and became foul: and Moses was mad salty with them.
 21. They gathered it morning by morning, everyone according to his eating. When the sun grew hot, it melted.
 22. It happened that on the day six they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for each one, and all the rulers of the congregation came and told Moses.
 23. He said to them, “This is that which Yahweh has spoken, ‘Tomorrow is a solemn rest, a set apart Sabbath to Yahweh. Bake that which you want to bake, and boil that which you want to boil; and all that remains over lay up for yourselves to be kept until the morning.’”
 24. They laid it up until the morning, as Moses asked, and it didn’t become foul, neither was there any worm in it.
 25. Moses said, “Eat that today, for today is a Sabbath to Yahweh. Today you shall not find it in the field.
 26. Six days you shall gather it, but on the day seven is the Sabbath. In it there shall be none.”
 27. It happened on the day seven, that some of the people went out to gather, and they found none.
 28. Yahweh said to Moses, “How long do you refuse to keep my commandments and my laws?
 29. check this out, cuz Yahweh has given you the Sabbath, so basically he gives you on the day six the bread of two days. Everyone stay in his place. Let no one slide out of his place on the day seven.”
 30. So the people rested on the day seven.
 31. The house of Israel called its name Manna, and it was like coriander seed, white; and its taste was like wafers with honey.
 32. Moses said, “This is the thing which Yahweh has commanded, ‘Let an omer-full of it be kept throughout your generations, that they may check it out the bread with which I fed you in the wilderness, when I brought you forth from the land of Egypt.’”
 33. Moses said to Aaron, “grab a pot, and put an omer-full of manna in it, and lay it up before Yahweh, to be kept throughout your generations.”
 34. As Yahweh commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the Testimony, to be kept.
 35. The children of Israel ate the manna forty years, until they came to an inhabited land. They ate the manna until they came to the borders of the land of Canaan.
 36. now an omer is the tenth part of an ephah.

# Exodus Chapter 17

  1. All the congregation of the children of Israel traveled from the wilderness of messing up, by their journeys, according to Yahweh’s commandment, and encamped in Rephidim; but there was no water for the people to drink.
  2. so basically the people quarreled with Moses, and said, “hook it up us water to drink.” Moses said to them, “Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you test Yahweh?”
  3. The people were thirsty for water there; and the people murmured against Moses, and said, “Why have you brought us up out of Egypt, to kill us, our children, and our livestock with thirst?”
  4. Moses cried to Yahweh, saying, “What shall I do with these people? They are almost ready to stone me.”
  5. Yahweh said to Moses, “Walk on before the people, and grab the elders of Israel with you, and grab the rod in your hand with which you struck the Nile, and slide.
  6. check this out, I will stand before you there on the rock in Horeb. You shall strike the rock, and water will come through out of it, that the people may drink.” Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel.
  7. He called the name of the place Massah, and Meribah, cuz the children of Israel quarreled, and cuz they tested Yahweh, saying, “Is Yahweh among us, or not?”
  8. then Amalek came and fought with Israel in Rephidim.
  9. Moses said to Joshua, “Choose men for us, and slide out, fight with Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with God’s rod in my hand.”
 10. So Joshua did as Moses had told him, and fought with Amalek; and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill.
 11. It happened, when Moses held up his hand, that Israel prevailed; and when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed.
 12. But Moses’ hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put it under him, and he sat on it. Aaron and Hur held up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side. His hands were steady until sunset.
 13. Joshua defeated Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword.
 14. Yahweh said to Moses, “Write this for a memorial in a book, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua: that I will utterly blot out the memory of Amalek from under the sky.”
 15. Moses built an prayer spot, and called its name Yahweh our Banner.
 16. He said, “Yah has sworn: ‘Yahweh will have war with Amalek from generation to generation.’”

# Exodus Chapter 18

  1. now Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses’ father-in-law, heard of all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his people, how that Yahweh had brought Israel out of Egypt.
  2. Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, received Zipporah, Moses’ wife, after he had sent her away,
  3. and her two sons. The name of one son was Gershom, for Moses said, “I have lived as a foreigner in a foreign land”.
  4. The name of the other was Eliezer, for he said, “My father’s God was my help out and delivered me from Pharaoh’s sword.”
  5. Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, came with his sons and his wife to Moses into the wilderness where he was encamped, at the Mountain of God.
  6. He said to Moses, “I, your father-in-law Jethro, have come through to you with your wife, and her two sons with her.”
  7. Moses went out to meet his father-in-law, and bowed and kissed him. They asked each other of their welfare, and they came into the tent.
  8. Moses told his father-in-law all that Yahweh had done to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel’s sake, all the hardships that had come through on them on the way, and how Yahweh delivered them.
  9. Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which Yahweh had done to Israel, in that he had delivered them out of the hand of the Egyptians.
 10. Jethro said, “blessed up be Yahweh, who has delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh; who has delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.
 11. now I get it that Yahweh is greater than all gods cuz of the thing in which they dealt arrogantly against them.”
 12. Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, took a burnt giving to God and sacrifices for God. Aaron came with all of the elders of Israel, to eat bread with Moses’ father-in-law before God.
 13. It happened on the next day, that Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood around Moses from the morning to the evening.
 14. When Moses’ father-in-law checked out all that he did to the people, he said, “What is this thing that you do for the people? Why do you sit alone, and all the people stand around you from morning to evening?”
 15. Moses said to his father-in-law, “cuz the people come through to me to inquire of God.
 16. When they have a matter, they come through to me, and I judge between a man and his neighbor, and I create them get it the statutes of God, and his laws.”
 17. Moses’ father-in-law said to him, “The thing that you do is not fire.
 18. You will surely wear away, both you, and this people that is with you; for the thing is too heavy for you. You are not able to perform it yourself alone.
 19. listen up now to my voice. I will hook it up you counsel, and God be with you. You represent the people before God, and bring the causes to God.
 20. You shall drop knowledge them the statutes and the laws, and shall show them the way in which they must walk, and the work that they must do.
 21. Moreover you shall provide out of all the people able men, such as fear God: men of truth, hating unjust gain; and place such over them, to be rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.
 22. Let them judge the people at all times. It shall be that every major matter they shall bring to you, but every tiny matter they shall judge themselves. So shall it be easier for you, and they shall share the load with you.
 23. If you will do this thing, and God commands you so, then you will be able to endure, and all of these people also will slide to their place in peace.”
 24. So Moses listened to the voice of his father-in-law, and did all that he had said.
 25. Moses chose able men out of all Israel, and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.
 26. They judged the people at all times. They brought the hard causes to Moses, but every tiny matter they judged themselves.
 27. Moses let his father-in-law depart, and he went his way into his own land.

# Exodus Chapter 19

  1. In the third month after the children of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, on that same day they came into the wilderness of Sinai.
  2. When they had departed from Rephidim, and had come through to the wilderness of Sinai, they encamped in the wilderness; and there Israel encamped before the mountain.
  3. Moses went up to God, and Yahweh called to him out of the mountain, saying, “This is what you shall tell the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel:
  4. ‘You have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagles’ wings, and brought you to myself.
  5. now so basically, if you will facts obey my voice, and keep my God's promise, then you shall be my own possession from among all peoples; for all the earth is mine;
  6. and you shall be to me a God's squad of priests, and a set apart nation.’ These are the words which you shall spill the tea to the children of Israel.”
  7. Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and set before them all these words which Yahweh commanded him.
  8. All the people answered together, and said, “All that Yahweh has spoken we will do.” Moses reported the words of the people to Yahweh.
  9. Yahweh said to Moses, “check this out, I come through to you in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I spill the tea with you, and may also believe you forever.” Moses told the words of the people to Yahweh.
 10. Yahweh said to Moses, “slide to the people, and sanctify them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their garments,
 11. and be ready against the day three; for on the day three Yahweh will come through down in the sight of all the people on Mount Sinai.
 12. You shall set bounds to the people all around, saying, ‘Be careful that you don’t slide up onto the mountain, or touch its border. Whoever touches the mountain shall be surely put to death.
 13. No hand shall touch him, but he shall surely be stoned or shot through; whether it is animal or man, he shall not live.’ When the trumpet sounds long, they shall come through up to the mountain.”
 14. Moses went down from the mountain to the people, and sanctified the people; and they washed their clothes.
 15. He said to the people, “Be ready by the day three. Don’t have sexual relations with a woman.”
 16. It happened on the day three, when it was morning, that there were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud on the mountain, and the sound of an exceedingly loud trumpet; and all the people who were in the camp trembled.
 17. Moses led the people out of the camp to meet God; and they stood at the lower part of the mountain.
 18. Mount Sinai, all it, smoked, cuz Yahweh descended on it in fire; and its smoke ascended like the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain quaked greatly.
 19. When the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God answered him by a voice.
 20. Yahweh came down on Mount Sinai, to the top of the mountain. Yahweh called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up.
 21. Yahweh said to Moses, “slide down, warn the people, lest they break through to Yahweh to gaze, and a lot of them perish.
 22. Let the priests also, who come through near to Yahweh, sanctify themselves, lest Yahweh break forth on them.”
 23. Moses said to Yahweh, “The people can’t come through up to Mount Sinai, for you warned us, saying, ‘Set bounds around the mountain, and sanctify it.’”
 24. Yahweh said to him, “slide down and you shall bring Aaron up with you, but don’t let the priests and the people break through to come through up to Yahweh, lest he break forth on them.”
 25. So Moses went down to the people, and told them.

# Exodus Chapter 20

  1. God spoke all these words, saying,
  2. “I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
  3. “You shall have no other gods before me.
  4. “You shall not create for yourselves an idol, nor any image of anything that is in the heavens above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:
  5. you shall not bow yourself down to them, nor help out them, for I, Yahweh your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, on the third and on the fourth generation of those who can't stand me,
  6. and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who show love me and keep my commandments.
  7. “You shall not grab the name of Yahweh your God in vain, for Yahweh will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.
  8. “Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it set apart.
  9. You shall labor six days, and do all your work,
 10. but the day seven is a Sabbath to Yahweh your God. You shall not do any work in it, you, nor your son, nor your daughter, your male helper, nor your female helper, nor your livestock, nor your stranger who is within your gates;
 11. for in six days Yahweh made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the day seven; so basically Yahweh blessed up the Sabbath day, and made it set apart.
 12. “Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land which Yahweh your God gives you.
 13. “You shall not murder.
 14. “You shall not commit adultery.
 15. “You shall not steal.
 16. “You shall not hook it up false testimony against your neighbor.
 17. “You shall not covet your neighbor’s house. You shall not covet your neighbor’s wife, nor his male helper, nor his female helper, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor’s.”
 18. All the people perceived the thunderings, the lightnings, the sound of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking. When the people checked out it, they trembled, and stayed at a distance.
 19. They said to Moses, “spill the tea with us yourself, and we will listen up; but don’t let God spill the tea with us, lest we die.”
 20. Moses said to the people, “Don’t be scared, for God has come through to test you, and that his fear may be before you, that you won’t messing up.”
 21. The people stayed at a distance, and Moses drew near to the thick darkness where God was.
 22. Yahweh said to Moses, “This is what you shall tell the children of Israel: ‘You yourselves have seen that I have talked with you from heaven.
 23. You shall most for sure not create alongside of me gods of silver, or gods of gold for yourselves.
 24. You shall create an prayer spot of earth for me, and shall giving it up on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your cattle. In every place where I record my name I will come through to you and I will bless you.
 25. If you create me an prayer spot of stone, you shall not put together it of cut stones; for if you lift up your tool on it, you have polluted it.
 26. Neither shall you slide up by steps to my prayer spot, that your nakedness may not be exposed to it.’

# Exodus Chapter 21

  1. “now these are the ordinances which you shall set before them.
  2. “If you buy a Hebrew helper, he shall help out six years and in the seventh he shall slide out free without paying anything.
  3. If he comes in by himself, he shall slide out by himself. If he is married, then his wife shall slide out with him.
  4. If his boss gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her boss’s, and he shall slide out by himself.
  5. But if the helper shall plainly say, ‘I show love my boss, my wife, and my children. I will not slide out free;’
  6. then his boss shall bring him to God, and shall bring him to the door or to the doorpost, and his boss shall bore his ear through with an awl, and he shall help out him for ever.
  7. “If a man sells his daughter to be a female helper, she shall not slide out as the male servants do.
  8. If she doesn’t please her boss, who has married her to himself, then he shall let her be redeemed. He shall have no right to sell her to a foreign people, since he has dealt deceitfully with her.
  9. If he marries her to his son, he shall deal with her as a daughter.
 10. If he takes another wife to himself, he shall not diminish her food, her clothing, and her marital rights.
 11. If he doesn’t do these three things for her, she may slide free without paying any money.
 12. “One who strikes a man so that he dies shall surely be put to death,
 13. but not if it is unintentional, but God allows it to happen: then I will appoint you a place where he shall flee.
 14. If a man schemes and comes presumptuously on his neighbor to kill him, you shall grab him from my prayer spot, that he may die.
 15. “Anyone who attacks his father or his mother shall be surely put to death.
 16. “Anyone who kidnaps someone and sells him, or if he is found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.
 17. “Anyone who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death.
 18. “If men quarrel and one strikes the other with a stone, or with his fist, and he doesn’t die, but is confined to bed;
 19. if he rises again and walks around with his staff, then he who struck him shall be cleared: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall provide for his healing until he is thoroughly healed.
 20. “If a man strikes his helper or his maid with a rod, and he dies under his hand, he shall surely be punished.
 21. Notwithstanding, if he gets up after a day or two, he shall not be punished, for he is his property.
 22. “If men fight and hurt a pregnant woman so that she gives birth prematurely, and yet no harm follows, he shall be surely fined as much as the woman’s husband demands and the judges allow.
 23. But if any harm follows, then you must grab life for life,
 24. eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
 25. burning for burning, wound for wound, and bruise for bruise.
 26. “If a man strikes his helper’s eye, or his maid’s eye, and destroys it, he shall let him slide free for his eye’s sake.
 27. If he strikes out his male helper’s tooth, or his female helper’s tooth, he shall let him slide free for his tooth’s sake.
 28. “If a bull gores a man or a woman to death, the bull shall surely be stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the bull shall not be held responsible.
 29. But if the bull had a habit of goring in the past, and it has been testified to its owner, and he has not kept it in, but it has killed a man or a woman, the bull shall be stoned, and its owner shall also be put to death.
 30. If a ransom is laid on him, then he shall hook it up for the redemption of his life whatever is laid on him.
 31. Whether it has gored a son or has gored a daughter, according to this judgment it shall be done to him.
 32. If the bull gores a male helper or a female helper, thirty shekels of silver shall be given to their boss, and the ox shall be stoned.
 33. “If a man opens a pit, or if a man digs a pit and doesn’t cover it, and a bull or a donkey falls into it,
 34. the owner of the pit shall create it fire. He shall hook it up money to its owner, and the dead animal shall be his.
 35. “If one man’s bull injures another’s, so that it dies, then they shall sell the live bull, and divide its price; and they shall also divide the dead animal.
 36. Or if it is known that the bull was in the habit of goring in the past, and its owner has not kept it in, he shall surely pay bull for bull, and the dead animal shall be his own.

# Exodus Chapter 22

  1. “If a man steals an ox or a sheep, and kills it, or sells it; he shall pay five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep.
  2. If the thief is found breaking in, and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no guilt of bloodshed for him.
  3. If the sun has risen on him, guilt of bloodshed shall be for him; he shall create restitution. If he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft.
  4. If the stolen property is found in his hand alive, whether it is ox, donkey, or sheep, he shall pay double.
  5. “If a man causes a field or vineyard to be eaten, and lets his animal loose, and it grazes in another man’s field, he shall create restitution from the best of his own field, and from the best of his own vineyard.
  6. “If fire breaks out, and catches in thorns so that the shocks of grain, or the standing grain, or the field are consumed; he who kindled the fire shall surely create restitution.
  7. “If a man delivers to his neighbor money or stuff to keep, and it is stolen out of the man’s house; if the thief is found, he shall pay double.
  8. If the thief isn’t found, then the boss of the house shall come through near to God, to find out if he hasn’t put his hand to his neighbor’s goods.
  9. For every matter of trespass, whether it be for ox, for donkey, for sheep, for clothing, or for any kind of lost thing, about which one says, ‘This is mine,’ the cause of both parties shall come through before God. He whom God condemns shall pay double to his neighbor.
 10. “If a man delivers to his neighbor a donkey, an ox, a sheep, or any animal to keep, and it dies or is injured, or driven away, no man seeing it;
 11. the oath of Yahweh shall be between them both, whether he hasn’t put his hand to his neighbor’s goods; and its owner shall accept it, and he shall not create restitution.
 12. But if it is stolen from him, he shall create restitution to its owner.
 13. If it is torn in pieces, let him bring it for evidence. He shall not create fire that which was torn.
 14. “If a man borrows anything of his neighbor’s, and it is injured, or dies, its owner not being with it, he shall surely create restitution.
 15. If its owner is with it, he shall not create it fire. If it is a leased thing, it came for its lease.
 16. “If a man entices a virgin who isn’t pledged to be married, and lies with her, he shall surely pay a dowry for her to be his wife.
 17. If her father utterly refuses to hook it up her to him, he shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins.
 18. “You shall not allow a sorceress to live.
 19. “Whoever has sex with an animal shall surely be put to death.
 20. “He who sacrifices to any god, except to Yahweh only, shall be utterly destroyed.
 21. “You shall not wrong an alien, neither shall you oppress him, for you were aliens in the land of Egypt.
 22. “You shall not grab advantage of any widow or fatherless child.
 23. If you grab advantage of them at all, and they cry at all to me, I will surely hear their cry;
 24. and my wrath will grow hot, and I will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless.
 25. “If you lend money to any of my people with you who is broke, you shall not be to him as a creditor; neither shall you charge him interest.
 26. If you grab your neighbor’s garment as collateral, you shall restore it to him before the sun goes down,
 27. for that is his only covering, it is his garment for his skin. What would he sleep in? It will happen, when he cries to me, that I will hear, for I am gracious.
 28. “You shall not blaspheme God, nor curse a ruler of your people.
 29. “You shall not delay to offer from your harvest and from the outflow of your presses. “You shall hook it up the firstborn of your sons to me.
 30. You shall do likewise with your cattle and with your sheep. Seven days it shall be with its mother, then on the eighth day you shall hook it up it to me.
 31. “You shall be set apart men to me, so basically you shall not eat any flesh that is torn by animals in the field. You shall cast it to the dogs.

# Exodus Chapter 23

  1. “You shall not spread a false report. Don’t join your hand with the wicked to be a malicious witness.
  2. “You shall not roll with a crowd to do evil; neither shall you testify in court to side with a multitude to pervert justice;
  3. neither shall you favor a broke man in his cause.
  4. “If you meet your enemy’s ox or his donkey going astray, you shall surely bring it back to him again.
  5. If you check it out the donkey of him who hates you fallen down under his burden, don’t leave him, you shall surely help out him with it.
  6. “You shall not deny justice to your broke people in their lawsuits.
  7. “Keep far from a false charge, and don’t kill the innocent and doing what's right: for I will not justify the wicked.
  8. “You shall grab no bribe, for a bribe blinds those who have sight and perverts the words of the doing what's right.
  9. “You shall not oppress an alien, for you get it the heart of an alien, since you were aliens in the land of Egypt.
 10. “For six years you shall sow your land, and shall gather in its increase,
 11. but the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie fallow, that the broke of your people may eat; and what they leave the animal of the field shall eat. In the same way, you shall deal with your vineyard and with your olive grove.
 12. “Six days you shall do your work, and on the day seven you shall rest, that your ox and your donkey may have rest, and the son of your handmaid, and the alien may be refreshed.
 13. “Be careful to do all things that I have said to you; and don’t invoke the name of other gods, neither let them be heard out of your mouth.
 14. “You shall observe a feast to me three times a year.
 15. You shall observe the feast of unleavened bread. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded you, at the time appointed in the month Abib (for in it you came out from Egypt), and no one shall appear before me empty.
 16. And the feast of harvest, the first fruits of your labors, which you sow in the field: and the feast of harvest, at the end of the year, when you gather in your labors out of the field.
 17. Three times in the year all your males shall appear before the boss Yahweh.
 18. “You shall not offer the blood of my giving it up with leavened bread, neither shall the fat of my feast remain all night until the morning.
 19. The first of the first fruits of your ground you shall bring into the house of Yahweh your God. “You shall not boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.
 20. “check this out, I send an angel before you, to keep you by the way, and to bring you into the place which I have prepared.
 21. Pay attention to him, and listen up to his voice. Don’t provoke him, for he will not pardon your disobedience, for my name is in him.
 22. But if you facts listen up to his voice, and do all that I spill the tea, then I will be an enemy to your enemies, and an adversary to your adversaries.
 23. For my angel shall slide before you, and bring you in to the Amorite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Canaanite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite; and I will cut them off.
 24. You shall not bow down to their gods, nor help out them, nor roll with their practices, but you shall utterly overthrow them and demolish their pillars.
 25. You shall help out Yahweh your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will grab sickness away from your midst.
 26. No one will miscarry or be barren in your land. I will fulfill the number of your days.
 27. I will send my terror before you, and will confuse all the people to whom you come through, and I will create all your enemies turn their backs to you.
 28. I will send the hornet before you, which will drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before you.
 29. I will not drive them out from before you in one year, lest the land become desolate, and the animals of the field multiply against you.
 30. Little by little I will drive them out from before you, until you have increased and inherit the land.
 31. I will set your border from the Red Sea even to the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness to the River; for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and you shall drive them out before you.
 32. You shall create no God's promise with them, nor with their gods.
 33. They shall not dwell in your land, lest they create you messing up against me, for if you help out their gods, it will surely be a snare to you.”

# Exodus Chapter 24

  1. He said to Moses, “come through up to Yahweh, you, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; and giving props from a distance.
  2. Moses alone shall come through near to Yahweh, but they shall not come through near, neither shall the people slide up with him.”
  3. Moses came and told the people all the words of Yahweh, and all the ordinances; and all the people answered with one voice, and said, “All the words which Yahweh has spoken will we do.”
  4. Moses wrote all the words of Yahweh, and rose up early in the morning, and built an prayer spot under the mountain, and twelve pillars for the twelve tribes of Israel.
  5. He sent young men of the children of Israel, who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of cattle to Yahweh.
  6. Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he sprinkled on the prayer spot.
  7. He took the book of the God's promise and read it in the hearing of the people, and they said, “All that Yahweh has spoken will we do, and be obedient.”
  8. Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and said, “Look, this is the blood of the God's promise, which Yahweh has made with you concerning all these words.”
  9. then Moses, Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel went up.
 10. They checked out the God of Israel. Under his feet was like a paved work of sapphire stone, like the skies for clearness.
 11. He didn’t lay his hand on the nobles of the children of Israel. They checked out God, and ate and drank.
 12. Yahweh said to Moses, “come through up to me on the mountain, and stay here, and I will hook it up you the tables of stone with the law and the commands that I have written, that you may drop knowledge them.”
 13. Moses rose up with Joshua, his helper, and Moses went up onto God’s Mountain.
 14. He said to the elders, “Wait here for us, until we come through again to you. check this out, Aaron and Hur are with you. Whoever is involved in a dispute can slide to them.”
 15. Moses went up on the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain.
 16. The glory of Yahweh settled on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days. The day seven he called to Moses out of the midst of the cloud.
 17. The appearance of the glory of Yahweh was like devouring fire on the top of the mountain in the eyes of the children of Israel.
 18. Moses entered into the midst of the cloud, and went up on the mountain; and Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights.

# Exodus Chapter 25

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, that they grab an giving to God for me. From everyone whose heart makes him willing you shall grab my giving to God.
  3. This is the giving to God which you shall grab from them: gold, silver, brass,
  4. blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goats’ hair,
  5. rams’ skins dyed red, sea cow hides, acacia wood,
  6. oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for the sweet incense,
  7. onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate.
  8. Let them create me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them.
  9. According to all that I show you, the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all of its furniture, even so you shall create it.
 10. “They shall create an ark of acacia wood. Its length shall be two and a half cubits, its breadth a cubit and a half, and a cubit and a half its height.
 11. You shall overlay it with pure gold. You shall overlay it inside and outside, and you shall create a gold molding around it.
 12. You shall cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in its four feet. Two rings shall be on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it.
 13. You shall create poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
 14. You shall put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark to carry the ark.
 15. The poles shall be in the rings of the ark. They shall not be taken from it.
 16. You shall put the testimony which I shall hook it up you into the ark.
 17. You shall create a mercy seat of pure gold. Two and a half cubits shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth.
 18. You shall create two cherubim of hammered gold. You shall create them at the two ends of the mercy seat.
 19. create one cherub at the one end, and one cherub at the other end. You shall create the cherubim on its two ends of one piece with the mercy seat.
 20. The cherubim shall spread out their wings upward, covering the mercy seat with their wings, with their faces toward one another. The faces of the cherubim shall be toward the mercy seat.
 21. You shall put the mercy seat on top of the ark, and in the ark you shall put the testimony that I will hook it up you.
 22. there I will meet with you, and I will tell you from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubim which are on the ark of the testimony, all that I command you for the children of Israel.
 23. “You shall create a table of acacia wood. Two cubits shall be its length, and a cubit its breadth, and one and a half cubits its height.
 24. You shall overlay it with pure gold, and create a gold molding around it.
 25. You shall create a rim of a handbreadth around it. You shall create a golden molding on its rim around it.
 26. You shall create four rings of gold for it, and put the rings in the four corners that are on its four feet.
 27. the rings shall be close to the rim, for places for the poles to carry the table.
 28. You shall create the poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be carried with them.
 29. You shall create its dishes, its spoons, its ladles, and its bowls to pour out offerings with. You shall create them of pure gold.
 30. You shall set bread of the presence on the table before me always.
 31. “You shall create a lampstand of pure gold. Of hammered work shall the lampstand be made, even its base, its shaft, its cups, its buds, and its flowers, shall be of one piece with it.
 32. there shall be six branches going out of its sides: three branches of the lampstand out of its one side, and three branches of the lampstand out of its other side;
 33. three cups made like almond blossoms in one branch, a bud and a flower; and three cups made like almond blossoms in the other branch, a bud and a flower, so for the six branches going out of the lampstand;
 34. and in the lampstand four cups made like almond blossoms, its buds and its flowers;
 35. and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
 36. Their buds and their branches shall be of one piece with it, all of it one beaten work of pure gold.
 37. You shall create its lamps seven, and they shall light its lamps to hook it up light to the space in front of it.
 38. Its snuffers and its snuff dishes shall be of pure gold.
 39. It shall be made of a talent of pure gold, with all these accessories.
 40. check it out that you create them after their pattern, which has been shown to you on the mountain.

# Exodus Chapter 26

  1. “Moreover you shall create the tabernacle with ten curtains; of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, with cherubim. The work of the skillful workman you shall create them.
  2. The length of each curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits: all the curtains shall have one measure.
  3. Five curtains shall be coupled together one to another; and the other five curtains shall be coupled one to another.
  4. You shall create loops of blue on the edge of the one curtain from the edge in the coupling; and likewise you shall create in the edge of the curtain that is outmost in the second coupling.
  5. You shall create fifty loops in the one curtain, and you shall create fifty loops in the edge of the curtain that is in the second coupling. The loops shall be opposite one to another.
  6. You shall create fifty clasps of gold, and couple the curtains one to another with the clasps: and the tabernacle shall be a unit.
  7. “You shall create curtains of goats’ hair for a covering over the tabernacle. You shall create them eleven curtains.
  8. The length of each curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits: the eleven curtains shall have one measure.
  9. You shall couple five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves, and shall double over the sixth curtain in the forefront of the tent.
 10. You shall create fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that is outmost in the coupling, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain which is outmost in the second coupling.
 11. You shall create fifty clasps of brass, and put the clasps into the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one.
 12. The overhanging part that remains of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remains, shall hang over the back of the tabernacle.
 13. The cubit on the one side, and the cubit on the other side, of that which remains in the length of the curtains of the tent, shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and on that side, to cover it.
 14. You shall create a covering for the tent of rams’ skins dyed red, and a covering of sea cow hides above.
 15. “You shall create the boards for the tabernacle of acacia wood, standing up.
 16. Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and one and a half cubits the breadth of each board.
 17. there shall be two tenons in each board, joined to one another: thus you shall create for all the boards of the tabernacle.
 18. You shall create the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards for the south side southward.
 19. You shall create forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for its two tenons, and two sockets under another board for its two tenons.
 20. For the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, twenty boards,
 21. and their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
 22. For the far part of the tabernacle westward you shall create six boards.
 23. You shall create two boards for the corners of the tabernacle in the far part.
 24. They shall be double beneath, and in the same way they shall be whole to its top to one ring: thus shall it be for them both; they shall be for the two corners.
 25. there shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
 26. “You shall create bars of acacia wood: five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
 27. and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle, for the far part westward.
 28. The middle bar in the midst of the boards shall pass through from end to end.
 29. You shall overlay the boards with gold, and create their rings of gold for places for the bars: and you shall overlay the bars with gold.
 30. You shall set up the tabernacle according to the way that it was shown to you on the mountain.
 31. “You shall create a veil of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, with cherubim. The work of the skillful workman shall it be made.
 32. You shall hang it on four pillars of acacia overlaid with gold; their hooks shall be of gold, on four sockets of silver.
 33. You shall hang up the veil under the clasps, and shall bring the ark of the testimony in there within the veil: and the veil shall separate the set apart place from the most set apart for you.
 34. You shall put the mercy seat on the ark of the testimony in the most set apart place.
 35. You shall set the table outside the veil, and the lampstand over against the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south: and you shall put the table on the north side.
 36. “You shall create a screen for the door of the Tent, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the embroiderer.
 37. You shall create for the screen five pillars of acacia, and overlay them with gold: their hooks shall be of gold: and you shall cast five sockets of brass for them.

# Exodus Chapter 27

  1. “You shall create the prayer spot of acacia wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the prayer spot shall be foursquare: and its height shall be three cubits.
  2. You shall create its horns on its four corners; its horns shall be of one piece with it; and you shall overlay it with brass.
  3. You shall create its pots to grab away its ashes, its shovels, its basins, its flesh hooks, and its fire pans: all its vessels you shall create of brass.
  4. You shall create a grating for it of network of brass: and on the net you shall create four bronze rings in its four corners.
  5. You shall put it under the ledge around the prayer spot beneath, that the net may reach halfway up the prayer spot.
  6. You shall create poles for the prayer spot, poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with brass.
  7. Its poles shall be put into the rings, and the poles shall be on the two sides of the prayer spot, when carrying it.
  8. You shall create it with hollow planks. They shall create it as it has been shown you on the mountain.
  9. “You shall create the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen one hundred cubits long for one side:
 10. and its pillars shall be twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.
 11. Likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings one hundred cubits long, and its pillars twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars, and their fillets, of silver.
 12. For the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.
 13. The breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits.
 14. The hangings for the one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
 15. For the other side shall be hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
 16. For the gate of the court shall be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the embroiderer; their pillars four, and their sockets four.
 17. All the pillars of the court around shall be filleted with silver; their hooks of silver, and their sockets of brass.
 18. The length of the court shall be one hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits, of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass.
 19. All the instruments of the tabernacle in all its service, and all its pins, and all the pins of the court, shall be of brass.
 20. “You shall command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually.
 21. In the Tent of Meeting, outside the veil which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall keep it in order from evening to morning before Yahweh: it shall be a statute forever throughout their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.

# Exodus Chapter 28

  1. “Bring Aaron your brother, and his sons with him, near to you from among the children of Israel, that he may minister to me in the priest’s office, even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron’s sons.
  2. You shall create set apart garments for Aaron your brother, for glory and for beauty.
  3. You shall spill the tea to all who are smart-hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they create Aaron’s garments to sanctify him, that he may minister to me in the priest’s office.
  4. These are the garments which they shall create: a breastplate, and an ephod, and a robe, and a coat of checker work, a turban, and a sash: and they shall create set apart garments for Aaron your brother, and his sons, that he may minister to me in the priest’s office.
  5. They shall grab the gold, and the blue, and the purple, and the scarlet, and the fine linen.
  6. “They shall create the ephod of gold, of blue, and purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the skillful workman.
  7. It shall have two shoulder straps joined to the two ends of it, that it may be joined together.
  8. The skillfully woven band, which is on it, that is on him, shall be like its work and of the same piece; of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.
  9. You shall grab two onyx stones, and engrave on them the names of the children of Israel:
 10. six of their names on the one stone, and the names of the six that remain on the other stone, in the order of their birth.
 11. With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a signet, you shall engrave the two stones, according to the names of the children of Israel: you shall create them to be enclosed in settings of gold.
 12. You shall put the two stones on the shoulder straps of the ephod, to be stones of memorial for the children of Israel: and Aaron shall bear their names before Yahweh on his two shoulders for a memorial.
 13. You shall create settings of gold,
 14. and two chains of pure gold; you shall create them like cords of braided work: and you shall put the braided chains on the settings.
 15. “You shall create a breastplate of judgment, the work of the skillful workman; like the work of the ephod you shall create it; of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, you shall create it.
 16. It shall be square and folded double; a span shall be its length of it, and a span its breadth.
 17. You shall set in it settings of stones, four rows of stones: a row of ruby, topaz, and beryl shall be the first row;
 18. and the second row a turquoise, a sapphire, and an emerald;
 19. and the third row a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
 20. and the fourth row a chrysolite, an onyx, and a jasper: they shall be enclosed in gold in their settings.
 21. The stones shall be according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names; like the engravings of a signet, everyone according to his name, they shall be for the twelve tribes.
 22. You shall create on the breastplate chains like cords, of braided work of pure gold.
 23. You shall create on the breastplate two rings of gold, and shall put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.
 24. You shall put the two braided chains of gold in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate.
 25. The other two ends of the two braided chains you shall put on the two settings, and put them on the shoulder straps of the ephod in its forepart.
 26. You shall create two rings of gold, and you shall put them on the two ends of the breastplate, on its edge, which is toward the side of the ephod inward.
 27. You shall create two rings of gold, and shall put them on the two shoulder straps of the ephod underneath, in its forepart, close by its coupling, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
 28. They shall bind the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it may be on the skillfully woven band of the ephod, and that the breastplate may not swing out from the ephod.
 29. Aaron shall bear the names of the children of Israel in the breastplate of judgment on his heart, when he goes in to the set apart place, for a memorial before Yahweh continually.
 30. You shall put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim; and they shall be on Aaron’s heart, when he goes in before Yahweh: and Aaron shall bear the judgment of the children of Israel on his heart before Yahweh continually.
 31. “You shall create the robe of the ephod all of blue.
 32. It shall have a hole for the head in its midst: it shall have a binding of woven work around its hole, as it were the hole of a coat of mail, that it not be torn.
 33. On its hem you shall create pomegranates of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, around its hem; and bells of gold between and around them:
 34. a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, around the hem of the robe.
 35. It shall be on Aaron to minister: and its sound shall be heard when he goes in to the set apart place before Yahweh, and when he comes out, that he not die.
 36. “You shall create a plate of pure gold, and engrave on it, like the engravings of a signet, ‘set apart TO YAHWEH.’
 37. You shall put it on a lace of blue, and it shall be on the sash; on the front of the sash it shall be.
 38. It shall be on Aaron’s forehead, and Aaron shall bear the iniquity of the set apart things, which the children of Israel shall create set apart in all their set apart gifts; and it shall be always on his forehead, that they may be accepted before Yahweh.
 39. You shall weave the coat in checker work of fine linen, and you shall create a turban of fine linen, and you shall create a sash, the work of the embroiderer.
 40. “You shall create coats for Aaron’s sons, and you shall create sashes for them and you shall create headbands for them, for glory and for beauty.
 41. You shall put them on Aaron your brother, and on his sons with him, and shall anoint them, and consecrate them, and sanctify them, that they may minister to me in the priest’s office.
 42. You shall create them linen breeches to cover the flesh of their nakedness; from the waist even to the thighs they shall reach:
 43. They shall be on Aaron, and on his sons, when they slide in to the Tent of Meeting, or when they come through near to the prayer spot to minister in the set apart place; that they don’t bear iniquity, and die: it shall be a statute forever to him and to his descendants after him.

# Exodus Chapter 29

  1. “This is the thing that you shall do to them to create them set apart, to minister to me in the priest’s office: grab one young bull and two rams without blemish,
  2. unleavened bread, unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil: you shall create them of fine wheat flour.
  3. You shall put them into one basket, and bring them in the basket, with the bull and the two rams.
  4. You shall bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the Tent of Meeting, and shall wash them with water.
  5. You shall grab the garments, and put on Aaron the coat, the robe of the ephod, the ephod, and the breastplate, and clothe him with the skillfully woven band of the ephod;
  6. and you shall set the turban on his head, and put the set apart crown on the turban.
  7. then you shall grab the anointing oil, and pour it on his head, and anoint him.
  8. You shall bring his sons, and put coats on them.
  9. You shall clothe them with belts, Aaron and his sons, and bind headbands on them: and they shall have the priesthood by a perpetual statute: and you shall consecrate Aaron and his sons.
 10. “You shall bring the bull before the Tent of Meeting: and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the bull.
 11. You shall kill the bull before Yahweh, at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
 12. You shall grab of the blood of the bull, and put it on the horns of the prayer spot with your finger; and you shall pour out all the blood at the base of the prayer spot.
 13. You shall grab all the fat that covers the innards, the cover of the liver, the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, and burn them on the prayer spot.
 14. But the flesh of the bull, and its skin, and its dung, you shall burn with fire outside of the camp: it is a messing up giving to God.
 15. “You shall also grab the one ram; and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram.
 16. You shall kill the ram, and you shall grab its blood, and sprinkle it around on the prayer spot.
 17. You shall cut the ram into its pieces, and wash its innards, and its legs, and put them with its pieces, and with its head.
 18. You shall burn the whole ram on the prayer spot: it is a burnt giving to God to Yahweh; it is a pleasant aroma, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 19. “You shall grab the other ram; and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram.
 20. then you shall kill the ram, and grab some of its blood, and put it on the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and on the tip of the right ear of his sons, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the huge toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood around on the prayer spot.
 21. You shall grab of the blood that is on the prayer spot, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it on Aaron, and on his garments, and on his sons, and on the garments of his sons with him: and he shall be made set apart, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons’ garments with him.
 22. Also you shall grab some of the ram’s fat, the fat tail, the fat that covers the innards, the cover of the liver, the two kidneys, the fat that is on them, and the right thigh (for it is a ram of consecration),
 23. and one loaf of bread, one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of unleavened bread that is before Yahweh.
 24. You shall put all of this in Aaron’s hands, and in his sons’ hands, and shall wave them for a wave giving to God before Yahweh.
 25. You shall grab them from their hands, and burn them on the prayer spot on the burnt giving to God, for a pleasant aroma before Yahweh: it is an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 26. “You shall grab the breast of Aaron’s ram of consecration, and wave it for a wave giving to God before Yahweh: and it shall be your portion.
 27. You shall sanctify the breast of the wave giving to God, and the thigh of the wave giving to God, which is waved, and which is heaved up, of the ram of consecration, even of that which is for Aaron, and of that which is for his sons:
 28. and it shall be for Aaron and his sons as their portion forever from the children of Israel; for it is a wave giving to God: and it shall be a wave giving to God from the children of Israel of the sacrifices of their peace offerings, even their wave giving to God to Yahweh.
 29. “The set apart garments of Aaron shall be for his sons after him, to be anointed in them, and to be consecrated in them.
 30. Seven days shall the son who is priest in his place put them on, when he comes into the Tent of Meeting to minister in the set apart place.
 31. “You shall grab the ram of consecration, and boil its flesh in a set apart place.
 32. Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket, at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
 33. They shall eat those things with which atonement was made, to consecrate and sanctify them: but a stranger shall not eat of it, cuz they are set apart.
 34. If anything of the flesh of the consecration, or of the bread, remains to the morning, then you shall burn the remainder with fire: it shall not be eaten, cuz it is set apart.
 35. “You shall do so to Aaron, and to his sons, according to all that I have commanded you. You shall consecrate them seven days.
 36. Every day you shall offer the bull of messing up giving to God for atonement: and you shall cleanse the prayer spot, when you create atonement for it; and you shall anoint it, to sanctify it.
 37. Seven days you shall create atonement for the prayer spot, and sanctify it: and the prayer spot shall be most set apart; whatever touches the prayer spot shall be set apart.
 38. “now this is that which you shall offer on the prayer spot: two lambs a year old day by day continually.
 39. The one lamb you shall offer in the morning; and the other lamb you shall offer at evening:
 40. and with the one lamb a tenth part of an ephah of fine flour mixed with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil, and the fourth part of a hin of wine for a drink giving to God.
 41. The other lamb you shall offer at evening, and shall do to it according to the meal giving to God of the morning, and according to its drink giving to God, for a pleasant aroma, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 42. It shall be a continual burnt giving to God throughout your generations at the door of the Tent of Meeting before Yahweh, where I will meet with you, to spill the tea there to you.
 43. there I will meet with the children of Israel; and the place shall be sanctified by my glory.
 44. I will sanctify the Tent of Meeting and the prayer spot: Aaron also and his sons I will sanctify, to minister to me in the priest’s office.
 45. I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be their God.
 46. They shall get it that I am Yahweh their God, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, that I might dwell among them: I am Yahweh their God.

# Exodus Chapter 30

  1. “You shall create an prayer spot to burn incense on. You shall create it of acacia wood.
  2. Its length shall be a cubit, and its breadth a cubit. It shall be square, and its height shall be two cubits. Its horns shall be of one piece with it.
  3. You shall overlay it with pure gold, its top, its sides around it, and its horns; and you shall create a gold molding around it.
  4. You shall create two golden rings for it under its molding; on its two ribs, on its two sides you shall create them; and they shall be for places for poles with which to bear it.
  5. You shall create the poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
  6. You shall put it before the veil that is by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with you.
  7. Aaron shall burn incense of sweet spices on it every morning. When he tends the lamps, he shall burn it.
  8. When Aaron lights the lamps at evening, he shall burn it, a perpetual incense before Yahweh throughout your generations.
  9. You shall offer no strange incense on it, nor burnt giving to God, nor meal giving to God; and you shall pour no drink giving to God on it.
 10. Aaron shall create atonement on its horns once in the year; with the blood of the messing up giving to God of atonement once in the year he shall create atonement for it throughout your generations. It is most set apart to Yahweh.”
 11. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 12. “When you grab a census of the children of Israel, according to those who are numbered among them, then each man shall hook it up a ransom for his soul to Yahweh, when you number them; that there be no plague among them when you number them.
 13. They shall hook it up this, everyone who passes over to those who are numbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary; (the shekel is twenty gerahs;) half a shekel for an giving to God to Yahweh.
 14. Everyone who passes over to those who are numbered, from twenty years old and upward, shall hook it up the giving to God to Yahweh.
 15. The stacked shall not hook it up more, and the broke shall not hook it up less, than the half shekel, when they hook it up the giving to God of Yahweh, to create atonement for your souls.
 16. You shall grab the atonement money from the children of Israel, and shall appoint it for the service of the Tent of Meeting; that it may be a memorial for the children of Israel before Yahweh, to create atonement for your souls.”
 17. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 18. “You shall also create a basin of brass, and its base of brass, in which to wash. You shall put it between the Tent of Meeting and the prayer spot, and you shall put water in it.
 19. Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet in it.
 20. When they slide into the Tent of Meeting, they shall wash with water, that they not die; or when they come through near to the prayer spot to minister, to burn an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 21. So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they not die: and it shall be a statute forever to them, even to him and to his descendants throughout their generations.”
 22. Moreover Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 23. “Also grab fine spices: of liquid myrrh, five hundred shekels; and of fragrant cinnamon half as much, even two hundred and fifty; and of fragrant cane, two hundred and fifty;
 24. and of cassia five hundred, after the shekel of the sanctuary; and a hin of olive oil.
 25. You shall create it a set apart anointing oil, a perfume compounded after the art of the perfumer: it shall be a set apart anointing oil.
 26. You shall use it to anoint the Tent of Meeting, the ark of the testimony,
 27. the table and all its articles, the lampstand and its accessories, the prayer spot of incense,
 28. the prayer spot of burnt giving to God with all its utensils, and the basin with its base.
 29. You shall sanctify them, that they may be most set apart. Whatever touches them shall be set apart.
 30. You shall anoint Aaron and his sons, and sanctify them, that they may minister to me in the priest’s office.
 31. You shall spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘This shall be a set apart anointing oil to me throughout your generations.
 32. It shall not be poured on man’s flesh, neither shall you create any like it, according to its composition: it is set apart. It shall be set apart to you.
 33. Whoever compounds any like it, or whoever puts any of it on a stranger, he shall be cut off from his people.’”
 34. Yahweh said to Moses, “grab to yourself sweet spices, gum resin, and onycha, and galbanum; sweet spices with pure frankincense: there shall be an equal weight of each;
 35. and you shall create incense of it, a perfume after the art of the perfumer, seasoned with salt, pure and set apart:
 36. and you shall beat some of it hella tiny, and put some of it before the testimony in the Tent of Meeting, where I will meet with you. It shall be to you most set apart.
 37. The incense which you shall create, according to its composition you shall not create for yourselves: it shall be to you set apart for Yahweh.
 38. Whoever shall create any like that, to smell of it, he shall be cut off from his people.”

# Exodus Chapter 31

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “check this out, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah:
  3. and I have filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all kinds of workmanship,
  4. to devise skillful works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass,
  5. and in cutting of stones for setting, and in carving of wood, to work in all kinds of workmanship.
  6. I, check this out, I have appointed with him Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and in the heart of all who are smart-hearted I have put wisdom, that they may create all that I have commanded you:
  7. the Tent of Meeting, the ark of the testimony, the mercy seat that is on it, all the furniture of the Tent,
  8. the table and its vessels, the pure lampstand with all its vessels, the prayer spot of incense,
  9. the prayer spot of burnt giving to God with all its vessels, the basin and its base,
 10. the finely worked garments—the set apart garments for Aaron the priest—the garments of his sons to minister in the priest’s office,
 11. the anointing oil, and the incense of sweet spices for the set apart place: according to all that I have commanded you they shall do.”
 12. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 13. “spill the tea also to the children of Israel, saying, ‘Most for sure you shall keep my Sabbaths: for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that you may get it that I am Yahweh who sanctifies you.
 14. You shall keep the Sabbath so basically; for it is set apart to you. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death; for whoever does any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
 15. Six days shall work be done, but on the day seven is a Sabbath of solemn rest, set apart to Yahweh. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall surely be put to death.
 16. so basically the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual God's promise.
 17. It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever; for in six days Yahweh made heaven and earth, and on the day seven he rested, and was refreshed.’”
 18. He gave to Moses, when he finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, the two tablets of the testimony, stone tablets, written with God’s finger.

# Exodus Chapter 32

  1. When the people checked out that Moses delayed to come through down from the mountain, the people gathered themselves together to Aaron, and said to him, “come through, create us gods, which shall slide before us; for as for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we don’t get it what has become of him.”
  2. Aaron said to them, “grab off the golden rings, which are in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters, and bring them to me.”
  3. All the people took off the golden rings which were in their ears, and brought them to Aaron.
  4. He received what they handed him, and fashioned it with an engraving tool, and made it a molten calf; and they said, “These are your gods, Israel, which brought you up out of the land of Egypt.”
  5. When Aaron checked out this, he built an prayer spot before it; and Aaron made a proclamation, and said, “Tomorrow shall be a feast to Yahweh.”
  6. They rose up early on the next day, and offered burnt offerings, and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to play.
  7. Yahweh spoke to Moses, “slide, get down; for your people, who you brought up out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves!
  8. They have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded them. They have made themselves a molten calf, and have worshiped it, and have sacrificed to it, and said, ‘These are your gods, Israel, which brought you up out of the land of Egypt.’”
  9. Yahweh said to Moses, “I have seen these people, and check this out, they are a stiff-necked people.
 10. now so basically leave me alone, that my wrath may burn hot against them, and that I may consume them; and I will create of you a major nation.”
 11. Moses begged Yahweh his God, and said, “Yahweh, why does your wrath burn hot against your people, that you have brought out of the land of Egypt with major power and with a mighty hand?
 12. Why should the Egyptians spill the tea, saying, ‘He brought them forth for evil, to kill them in the mountains, and to consume them from the surface of the earth?’ Turn from your fierce wrath, and turn it around of this evil against your people.
 13. Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants, to whom you swore by your own self, and said to them, ‘I will multiply your seed as the stars of the sky, and all this land that I have spoken of I will hook it up to your seed, and they shall inherit it forever.’”
 14. Yahweh repented of the evil which he said he would do to his people.
 15. Moses turned, and went down from the mountain, with the two tablets of the testimony in his hand; tablets that were written on both their sides; on the one side and on the other they were written.
 16. The tablets were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God, engraved on the tables.
 17. When Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said to Moses, “there is the noise of war in the camp.”
 18. He said, “It isn’t the voice of those who shout for victory, neither is it the voice of those who cry for being overcome; but the noise of those who sing that I hear.”
 19. It happened, as soon as he came near to the camp, that he checked out the calf and the dancing: and Moses’ anger grew hot, and he threw the tablets out of his hands, and broke them beneath the mountain.
 20. He took the calf which they had made, and burnt it with fire, ground it to powder, and scattered it on the water, and made the children of Israel drink of it.
 21. Moses said to Aaron, “What did these people do to you, that you have brought a major messing up on them?”
 22. Aaron said, “Don’t let the anger of my boss grow hot. You get it the people, that they are set on evil.
 23. For they said to me, ‘create us gods, which shall slide before us; for as for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we don’t get it what has become of him.’
 24. I said to them, ‘Whoever has any gold, let them grab it off:’ so they gave it to me; and I threw it into the fire, and out came this calf.”
 25. When Moses checked out that the people had broken loose, (for Aaron had let them loose for a derision among their enemies),
 26. then Moses stood in the gate of the camp, and said, “Whoever is on Yahweh’s side, come through to me!” All the sons of Levi gathered themselves together to him.
 27. He said to them, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Every man put his sword on his thigh, and slide back and forth from gate to gate throughout the camp, and every man kill his brother, and every man his companion, and every man his neighbor.’”
 28. The sons of Levi did according to the word of Moses: and there fell of the people that day about three thousand men.
 29. Moses said, “Consecrate yourselves today to Yahweh, yes, every man against his son, and against his brother; that he may bestow on you a blessing this day.”
 30. It happened on the next day, that Moses said to the people, “You have sinned a major messing up. now I will slide up to Yahweh. Perhaps I shall create atonement for your messing up.”
 31. Moses returned to Yahweh, and said, “Oh, this people have sinned a major messing up, and have made themselves gods of gold.
 32. Yet now, if you will, forgive their messing up—and if not, please blot me out of your book which you have written.”
 33. Yahweh said to Moses, “Whoever has sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book.
 34. now slide, show the way the people to the place of which I have spoken to you. check this out, my angel shall slide before you. Nevertheless in the day when I punish, I will punish them for their messing up.”
 35. Yahweh struck the people, cuz they made the calf, which Aaron made.

# Exodus Chapter 33

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, “Depart, slide up from here, you and the people that you have brought up out of the land of Egypt, to the land of which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, ‘I will hook it up it to your seed.’
  2. I will send an angel before you; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
  3. to a land flowing with milk and honey: for I will not slide up in the midst of you, for you are a stiff-necked people, lest I consume you in the way.”
  4. When the people heard this evil news, they mourned: and no one put on his jewelry.
  5. Yahweh said to Moses, “Tell the children of Israel, ‘You are a stiff-necked people. If I were to slide up into your midst for one moment, I would consume you. so basically now grab off your jewelry from you, that I may get it what to do to you.’”
  6. The children of Israel stripped themselves of their jewelry from Mount Horeb onward.
  7. now Moses used to grab the tent and to pitch it outside the camp, far away from the camp, and he called it “The Tent of Meeting.” It happened that everyone who sought Yahweh went out to the Tent of Meeting, which was outside the camp.
  8. It happened that when Moses went out to the Tent, that all the people rose up, and stood, everyone at their tent door, and watched Moses, until he had gone into the Tent.
  9. It happened, when Moses entered into the Tent, that the pillar of cloud descended, stood at the door of the Tent, and spoke with Moses.
 10. All the people checked out the pillar of cloud stand at the door of the Tent, and all the people rose up and worshiped, everyone at their tent door.
 11. Yahweh spoke to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. He turned again into the camp, but his helper Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, didn’t depart out of the Tent.
 12. Moses said to Yahweh, “check this out, you tell me, ‘Bring up this people:’ and you haven’t let me get it whom you will send with me. Yet you have said, ‘I get it you by name, and you have also found favor in my sight.’
 13. now so basically, if I have found favor in your sight, please show me now your ways, that I may get it you, so that I may find favor in your sight: and consider that this nation is your people.”
 14. He said, “My presence will slide with you, and I will hook it up you rest.”
 15. He said to him, “If your presence doesn’t slide with me, don’t carry us up from here.
 16. For how would people get it that I have found favor in your sight, I and your people? Isn’t it in that you slide with us, so that we are separated, I and your people, from all the people who are on the surface of the earth?”
 17. Yahweh said to Moses, “I will do this thing also that you have spoken; for you have found favor in my sight, and I get it you by name.”
 18. He said, “Please show me your glory.”
 19. He said, “I will create all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim the name of Yahweh before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy.”
 20. He said, “You cannot check it out my face, for man may not check it out me and live.”
 21. Yahweh also said, “check this out, there is a place by me, and you shall stand on the rock.
 22. It will happen, while my glory passes by, that I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and will cover you with my hand until I have passed by;
 23. then I will grab away my hand, and you will check it out my back; but my face shall not be seen.”

# Exodus Chapter 34

  1. Yahweh said to Moses, “Chisel two stone tablets like the first: and I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke.
  2. Be ready by the morning, and come through up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and present yourself there to me on the top of the mountain.
  3. No one shall come through up with you; neither let anyone be seen throughout all the mountain; neither let the flocks nor herds feed before that mountain.”
  4. He chiseled two tablets of stone like the first; and Moses rose up early in the morning, and went up to Mount Sinai, as Yahweh had commanded him, and took in his hand two stone tablets.
  5. Yahweh descended in the cloud, and stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of Yahweh.
  6. Yahweh passed by before him, and proclaimed, “Yahweh! Yahweh, a merciful and gracious God, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness and truth,
  7. keeping loving kindness for thousands, forgiving iniquity and disobedience and messing up; and that will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, and on the children’s children, on the third and on the fourth generation.”
  8. Moses hurried and bowed his head toward the earth, and worshiped.
  9. He said, “If now I have found favor in your sight, boss, please let the boss slide in the midst of us; although this is a stiff-necked people; pardon our iniquity and our messing up, and grab us for your inheritance.”
 10. He said, “check this out, I create a God's promise: before all your people I will do marvels, such as have not been worked in all the earth, nor in any nation; and all the people among which you are shall check it out the work of Yahweh; for it is an awesome thing that I do with you.
 11. Observe that which I command you this day. check this out, I drive out before you the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
 12. Be careful, lest you create a God's promise with the inhabitants of the land where you are going, lest it be for a snare in the midst of you:
 13. but you shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and you shall cut down their Asherim;
 14. for you shall giving props no other god: for Yahweh, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God.
 15. “Don’t create a God's promise with the inhabitants of the land, lest they play the prostitute after their gods, and giving it up to their gods, and one call you and you eat of his giving it up;
 16. and you grab of their daughters to your sons, and their daughters play the prostitute after their gods, and create your sons play the prostitute after their gods.
 17. “You shall create no cast idols for yourselves.
 18. “You shall keep the feast of unleavened bread. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded you, at the time appointed in the month Abib; for in the month Abib you came out from Egypt.
 19. “All that opens the womb is mine; and all your livestock that is male, the firstborn of cow and sheep.
 20. The firstborn of a donkey you shall redeem with a lamb: and if you will not redeem it, then you shall break its neck. All the firstborn of your sons you shall redeem. No one shall appear before me empty.
 21. “Six days you shall work, but on the day seven you shall rest: in plowing time and in harvest you shall rest.
 22. “You shall observe the feast of weeks with the first fruits of wheat harvest, and the feast of harvest at the year’s end.
 23. Three times in the year all your males shall appear before the boss Yahweh, the God of Israel.
 24. For I will drive out nations before you and enlarge your borders; neither shall any man desire your land when you slide up to appear before Yahweh, your God, three times in the year.
 25. “You shall not offer the blood of my giving it up with leavened bread; neither shall the giving it up of the feast of the Passover be left to the morning.
 26. “You shall bring the first of the first fruits of your ground to the house of Yahweh your God. “You shall not boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.”
 27. Yahweh said to Moses, “Write you these words: for in accordance with these words I have made a God's promise with you and with Israel.”
 28. He was there with Yahweh forty days and forty nights; he neither ate bread, nor drank water. He wrote on the tablets the words of the God's promise, the ten commandments.
 29. It happened, when Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the two tablets of the testimony in Moses’ hand, when he came down from the mountain, that Moses didn’t get it that the skin of his face shone by reason of his speaking with him.
 30. When Aaron and all the children of Israel checked out Moses, check this out, the skin of his face shone; and they were scared to come through near him.
 31. Moses called to them, and Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned to him; and Moses spoke to them.
 32. Afterward all the children of Israel came near, and he gave them all of the commandments that Yahweh had spoken with him on Mount Sinai.
 33. When Moses was done speaking with them, he put a veil on his face.
 34. But when Moses went in before Yahweh to spill the tea with him, he took the veil off, until he came out; and he came out, and spoke to the children of Israel that which he was commanded.
 35. The children of Israel checked out Moses’ face, that the skin of Moses’ face shone: and Moses put the veil on his face again, until he went in to spill the tea with him.

# Exodus Chapter 35

  1. Moses assembled all the congregation of the children of Israel, and said to them, “These are the words which Yahweh has commanded, that you should do them.
  2. ‘Six days shall work be done, but on the day seven there shall be a set apart day for you, a Sabbath of solemn rest to Yahweh: whoever does any work in it shall be put to death.
  3. You shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations on the Sabbath day.’”
  4. Moses spoke to all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, “This is the thing which Yahweh commanded, saying,
  5. ‘grab from among you an giving to God to Yahweh. Whoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it, Yahweh’s giving to God: gold, silver, brass,
  6. blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goats’ hair,
  7. rams’ skins dyed red, sea cow hides, acacia wood,
  8. oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for the sweet incense,
  9. onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate.
 10. “‘Let every smart-hearted man among you come through, and create all that Yahweh has commanded:
 11. the tabernacle, its outer covering, its roof, its clasps, its boards, its bars, its pillars, and its sockets;
 12. the ark, and its poles, the mercy seat, the veil of the screen;
 13. the table with its poles and all its vessels, and the show bread;
 14. the lampstand also for the light, with its vessels, its lamps, and the oil for the light;
 15. and the prayer spot of incense with its poles, the anointing oil, the sweet incense, the screen for the door, at the door of the tabernacle;
 16. the prayer spot of burnt giving to God, with its grating of brass, it poles, and all its vessels, the basin and its base;
 17. the hangings of the court, its pillars, their sockets, and the screen for the gate of the court;
 18. the pins of the tabernacle, the pins of the court, and their cords;
 19. the finely worked garments, for ministering in the set apart place, the set apart garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest’s office.’”
 20. All the congregation of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses.
 21. They came, everyone whose heart stirred him up, and everyone whom his spirit made willing, and brought Yahweh’s giving to God, for the work of the Tent of Meeting, and for all of its service, and for the set apart garments.
 22. They came, both men and women, as a lot as were willing-hearted, and brought brooches, earrings, signet rings, and armlets, all jewels of gold; even every man who offered an giving to God of gold to Yahweh.
 23. Everyone, with whom was found blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goats’ hair, rams’ skins dyed red, and sea cow hides, brought them.
 24. Everyone who offered an giving to God of silver and brass brought Yahweh’s giving to God; and everyone, with whom was found acacia wood for any work of the service, brought it.
 25. All the women who were smart-hearted spun with their hands, and brought that which they had spun, the blue, the purple, the scarlet, and the fine linen.
 26. All the women whose heart stirred them up in wisdom spun the goats’ hair.
 27. The rulers brought the onyx stones, and the stones to be set, for the ephod and for the breastplate;
 28. and the spice, and the oil for the light, for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense.
 29. The children of Israel brought a freewill giving to God to Yahweh; every man and woman, whose heart made them willing to bring for all the work, which Yahweh had commanded to be made by Moses.
 30. Moses said to the children of Israel, “check this out, Yahweh has called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.
 31. He has filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, in understanding, in knowledge, and in all kinds of workmanship;
 32. and to create skillful works, to work in gold, in silver, in brass,
 33. in cutting of stones for setting, and in carving of wood, to work in all kinds of skillful workmanship.
 34. He has put in his heart that he may drop knowledge, both he, and Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
 35. He has filled them with wisdom of heart, to work all kinds of workmanship, of the engraver, of the skillful workman, and of the embroiderer, in blue, in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen, and of the weaver, even of those who do any workmanship, and of those who create skillful works.

# Exodus Chapter 36

  1. “Bezalel and Oholiab shall work with every smart-hearted man, in whom Yahweh has put wisdom and understanding to get it how to work all the work for the service of the sanctuary, according to all that Yahweh has commanded.”
  2. Moses called Bezalel and Oholiab, and every smart-hearted man, in whose heart Yahweh had put wisdom, even everyone whose heart stirred him up to come through to the work to do it:
  3. and they received from Moses all the giving to God which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, with which to create it. They brought yet to him freewill offerings every morning.
  4. All the smart men, who performed all the work of the sanctuary, each came from his work which they did.
  5. They spoke to Moses, saying, “The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work which Yahweh commanded to create.”
  6. Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying, “Let neither man nor woman create anything else for the giving to God for the sanctuary.” So the people were restrained from bringing.
  7. For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to create it, and too much.
  8. All the smart-hearted men among those who did the work made the tabernacle with ten curtains; of fine twined linen, blue, purple, and scarlet, with cherubim, the work of the skillful workman, they made them.
  9. The length of each curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits. All the curtains had one measure.
 10. He coupled five curtains to one another, and the other five curtains he coupled one to another.
 11. He made loops of blue on the edge of the one curtain from the edge in the coupling. Likewise he made in the edge of the curtain that was outmost in the second coupling.
 12. He made fifty loops in the one curtain, and he made fifty loops in the edge of the curtain that was in the second coupling. The loops were opposite one to another.
 13. He made fifty clasps of gold, and coupled the curtains one to another with the clasps: so the tabernacle was a unit.
 14. He made curtains of goats’ hair for a covering over the tabernacle. He made them eleven curtains.
 15. The length of each curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits the breadth of each curtain. The eleven curtains had one measure.
 16. He coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves.
 17. He made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was outmost in the coupling, and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain which was outmost in the second coupling.
 18. He made fifty clasps of brass to couple the tent together, that it might be a unit.
 19. He made a covering for the tent of rams’ skins dyed red, and a covering of sea cow hides above.
 20. He made the boards for the tabernacle of acacia wood, standing up.
 21. Ten cubits was the length of a board, and a cubit and a half the breadth of each board.
 22. Each board had two tenons, joined one to another. He made all the boards of the tabernacle this way.
 23. He made the boards for the tabernacle: twenty boards for the south side southward.
 24. He made forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for its two tenons, and two sockets under another board for its two tenons.
 25. For the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, he made twenty boards,
 26. and their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
 27. For the far part of the tabernacle westward he made six boards.
 28. He made two boards for the corners of the tabernacle in the far part.
 29. They were double beneath, and in the same way they were all the way to its top to one ring. He did this to both of them in the two corners.
 30. there were eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets; under every board two sockets.
 31. He made bars of acacia wood; five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
 32. and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle for the hinder part westward.
 33. He made the middle bar to pass through in the midst of the boards from the one end to the other.
 34. He overlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings of gold for places for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.
 35. He made the veil of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen: with cherubim. He made it the work of a skillful workman.
 36. He made four pillars of acacia for it, and overlaid them with gold. Their hooks were of gold. He cast four sockets of silver for them.
 37. He made a screen for the door of the tent, of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of an embroiderer;
 38. and the five pillars of it with their hooks. He overlaid their capitals and their fillets with gold, and their five sockets were of brass.

# Exodus Chapter 37

  1. Bezalel made the ark of acacia wood. Its length was two and a half cubits, and its breadth a cubit and a half, and a cubit and a half its height.
  2. He overlaid it with pure gold inside and outside, and made a molding of gold for it around it.
  3. He cast four rings of gold for it, in its four feet; even two rings on its one side, and two rings on its other side.
  4. He made poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold.
  5. He put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark, to bear the ark.
  6. He made a mercy seat of pure gold. Its length was two and a half cubits, and a cubit and a half its breadth.
  7. He made two cherubim of gold. He made them of beaten work, at the two ends of the mercy seat;
  8. one cherub at the one end, and one cherub at the other end. He made the cherubim of one piece with the mercy seat at its two ends.
  9. The cherubim spread out their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings, with their faces toward one another. The faces of the cherubim were toward the mercy seat.
 10. He made the table of acacia wood. Its length was two cubits, and its breadth was a cubit, and its height was a cubit and a half.
 11. He overlaid it with pure gold, and made a gold molding around it.
 12. He made a border of a handbreadth around it, and made a golden molding on its border around it.
 13. He cast four rings of gold for it, and put the rings in the four corners that were on its four feet.
 14. The rings were close by the border, the places for the poles to carry the table.
 15. He made the poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold, to carry the table.
 16. He made the vessels which were on the table, its dishes, its spoons, its bowls, and its pitchers with which to pour out, of pure gold.
 17. He made the lampstand of pure gold. He made the lampstand of beaten work. Its base, its shaft, its cups, its buds, and its flowers were of one piece with it.
 18. there were six branches going out of its sides: three branches of the lampstand out of its one side, and three branches of the lampstand out of its other side:
 19. three cups made like almond blossoms in one branch, a bud and a flower, and three cups made like almond blossoms in the other branch, a bud and a flower: so for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
 20. In the lampstand were four cups made like almond blossoms, its buds and its flowers;
 21. and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of it.
 22. Their buds and their branches were of one piece with it. The whole thing was one beaten work of pure gold.
 23. He made its seven lamps, and its snuffers, and its snuff dishes, of pure gold.
 24. He made it of a talent of pure gold, with all its vessels.
 25. He made the prayer spot of incense of acacia wood. It was square: its length was a cubit, and its breadth a cubit. Its height was two cubits. Its horns were of one piece with it.
 26. He overlaid it with pure gold, its top, its sides around it, and its horns. He made a gold molding around it.
 27. He made two golden rings for it under its molding crown, on its two ribs, on its two sides, for places for poles with which to carry it.
 28. He made the poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold.
 29. He made the set apart anointing oil and the pure incense of sweet spices, after the art of the perfumer.

# Exodus Chapter 38

  1. He made the prayer spot of burnt giving to God of acacia wood. It was square. Its length was five cubits, its breadth was five cubits, and its height was three cubits.
  2. He made its horns on its four corners. Its horns were of one piece with it, and he overlaid it with brass.
  3. He made all the vessels of the prayer spot, the pots, the shovels, the basins, the forks, and the fire pans. He made all its vessels of brass.
  4. He made for the prayer spot a grating of a network of brass, under the ledge around it beneath, reaching halfway up.
  5. He cast four rings for the four ends of brass grating, to be places for the poles.
  6. He made the poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with brass.
  7. He put the poles into the rings on the sides of the prayer spot, with which to carry it. He made it hollow with planks.
  8. He made the basin of brass, and its base of brass, out of the mirrors of the ministering women who ministered at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
  9. He made the court: for the south side southward the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, one hundred cubits;
 10. their pillars were twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver.
 11. For the north side one hundred cubits, their pillars twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars, and their fillets, of silver.
 12. For the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten, and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars, and their fillets, of silver.
 13. For the east side eastward fifty cubits.
 14. The hangings for the one side were fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three;
 15. and so for the other side: on this hand and that hand by the gate of the court were hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
 16. All the hangings around the court were of fine twined linen.
 17. The sockets for the pillars were of brass. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver; and the overlaying of their capitals, of silver; and all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver.
 18. The screen for the gate of the court was the work of the embroiderer, of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen. Twenty cubits was the length, and the height in the breadth was five cubits, like to the hangings of the court.
 19. Their pillars were four, and their sockets four, of brass; their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their capitals, and their fillets, of silver.
 20. All the pins of the tabernacle, and around the court, were of brass.
 21. This is the amount of material used for the tabernacle, even the Tabernacle of the Testimony, as they were counted, according to the commandment of Moses, for the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest.
 22. Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that Yahweh commanded Moses.
 23. With him was Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, and a skillful workman, and an embroiderer in blue, in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen.
 24. All the gold that was used for the work in all the work of the sanctuary, even the gold of the giving to God, was twenty-nine talents, and seven hundred thirty shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary.
 25. The silver of those who were numbered of the congregation was one hundred talents, and one thousand seven hundred seventy-five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary:
 26. a beka a head, that is, half a shekel, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for everyone who passed over to those who were numbered, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty men.
 27. The one hundred talents of silver were for casting the sockets of the sanctuary, and the sockets of the veil; one hundred sockets for the one hundred talents, a talent for a socket.
 28. Of the one thousand seven hundred seventy-five shekels he made hooks for the pillars, overlaid their capitals, and made fillets for them.
 29. The brass of the giving to God was seventy talents, and two thousand four hundred shekels.
 30. With this he made the sockets to the door of the Tent of Meeting, the bronze prayer spot, the bronze grating for it, all the vessels of the prayer spot,
 31. the sockets around the court, the sockets of the gate of the court, all the pins of the tabernacle, and all the pins around the court.

# Exodus Chapter 39

  1. Of the blue, purple, and scarlet, they made finely worked garments, for ministering in the set apart place, and made the set apart garments for Aaron; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
  2. He made the ephod of gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen.
  3. They beat the gold into thin plates, and cut it into wires, to work it in the blue, in the purple, in the scarlet, and in the fine linen, the work of the skillful workman.
  4. They made shoulder straps for it, joined together. At the two ends it was joined together.
  5. The skillfully woven band that was on it, with which to fasten it on, was of the same piece, like its work; of gold, of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
  6. They worked the onyx stones, enclosed in settings of gold, engraved with the engravings of a signet, according to the names of the children of Israel.
  7. He put them on the shoulder straps of the ephod, to be stones of memorial for the children of Israel, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
  8. He made the breastplate, the work of a skillful workman, like the work of the ephod; of gold, of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen.
  9. It was square. They made the breastplate double. Its length was a span, and its breadth a span, being double.
 10. They set in it four rows of stones. A row of ruby, topaz, and beryl was the first row;
 11. and the second row, a turquoise, a sapphire, and an emerald;
 12. and the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
 13. and the fourth row, a chrysolite, an onyx, and a jasper. They were enclosed in gold settings.
 14. The stones were according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names; like the engravings of a signet, everyone according to his name, for the twelve tribes.
 15. They made on the breastplate chains like cords, of braided work of pure gold.
 16. They made two settings of gold, and two gold rings, and put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.
 17. They put the two braided chains of gold in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate.
 18. The other two ends of the two braided chains they put on the two settings, and put them on the shoulder straps of the ephod, in its front.
 19. They made two rings of gold, and put them on the two ends of the breastplate, on its edge, which was toward the side of the ephod inward.
 20. They made two rings of gold, and put them on the two shoulder straps of the ephod underneath, in its front, close by its coupling, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
 21. They bound the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it might be on the skillfully woven band of the ephod, and that the breastplate might not come through loose from the ephod, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 22. He made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue.
 23. The opening of the robe in its midst was like the opening of a coat of mail, with a binding around its opening, that it should not be torn.
 24. They made on the skirts of the robe pomegranates of blue, purple, scarlet, and twined linen.
 25. They made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between the pomegranates around the skirts of the robe, between the pomegranates;
 26. a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, around the skirts of the robe, to minister in, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 27. They made the coats of fine linen of woven work for Aaron, and for his sons,
 28. and the turban of fine linen, and the linen headbands of fine linen, and the linen breeches of fine twined linen,
 29. and the sash of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, the work of the embroiderer, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 30. They made the plate of the set apart crown of pure gold, and wrote on it a writing, like the engravings of a signet: “set apart TO YAHWEH.”
 31. They tied to it a lace of blue, to fasten it on the turban above, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 32. Thus all the work of the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting was finished. The children of Israel did according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses; so they did.
 33. They brought the tabernacle to Moses, the tent, with all its furniture, its clasps, its boards, its bars, its pillars, its sockets,
 34. the covering of rams’ skins dyed red, the covering of sea cow hides, the veil of the screen,
 35. the ark of the testimony with its poles, the mercy seat,
 36. the table, all its vessels, the show bread,
 37. the pure lampstand, its lamps, even the lamps to be set in order, all its vessels, the oil for the light,
 38. the golden prayer spot, the anointing oil, the sweet incense, the screen for the door of the Tent,
 39. the bronze prayer spot, its grating of brass, its poles, all of its vessels, the basin and its base,
 40. the hangings of the court, its pillars, its sockets, the screen for the gate of the court, its cords, its pins, all the instruments of the service of the tabernacle, for the Tent of Meeting,
 41. the finely worked garments for ministering in the set apart place, the set apart garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest’s office.
 42. According to all that Yahweh commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did all the work.
 43. Moses checked out all the work, and check this out, they had done it as Yahweh had commanded, even so had they done it: and Moses blessed up them.

# Exodus Chapter 40

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “On the day one of the first month you shall raise up the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting.
  3. You shall put the ark of the testimony in it, and you shall screen the ark with the veil.
  4. You shall bring in the table, and set in order the things that are on it. You shall bring in the lampstand, and light its lamps.
  5. You shall set the golden prayer spot for incense before the ark of the testimony, and put the screen of the door to the tabernacle.
  6. “You shall set the prayer spot of burnt giving to God before the door of the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting.
  7. You shall set the basin between the Tent of Meeting and the prayer spot, and shall put water therein.
  8. You shall set up the court around it, and hang up the screen of the gate of the court.
  9. “You shall grab the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle, and all that is in it, and shall create it set apart, and all its furniture: and it will be set apart.
 10. You shall anoint the prayer spot of burnt giving to God, with all its vessels, and sanctify the prayer spot: and the prayer spot will be most set apart.
 11. You shall anoint the basin and its base, and sanctify it.
 12. “You shall bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the Tent of Meeting, and shall wash them with water.
 13. You shall put on Aaron the set apart garments; and you shall anoint him, and sanctify him, that he may minister to me in the priest’s office.
 14. You shall bring his sons, and put coats on them.
 15. You shall anoint them, as you anointed their father, that they may minister to me in the priest’s office. Their anointing shall be to them for an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations.”
 16. Moses did so. According to all that Yahweh commanded him, so he did.
 17. It happened in the first month in the second year, on the day one of the month, that the tabernacle was raised up.
 18. Moses raised up the tabernacle, and laid its sockets, and set up its boards, and put in its bars, and raised up its pillars.
 19. He spread the covering over the tent, and put the roof of the tabernacle above on it, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 20. He took and put the testimony into the ark, and set the poles on the ark, and put the mercy seat above on the ark.
 21. He brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the veil of the screen, and screened the ark of the testimony, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 22. He put the table in the Tent of Meeting, on the side of the tabernacle northward, outside of the veil.
 23. He set the bread in order on it before Yahweh, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 24. He put the lampstand in the Tent of Meeting, opposite the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward.
 25. He lit the lamps before Yahweh, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 26. He put the golden prayer spot in the Tent of Meeting before the veil;
 27. and he burnt incense of sweet spices on it, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 28. He put up the screen of the door to the tabernacle.
 29. He set the prayer spot of burnt giving to God at the door of the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting, and offered on it the burnt giving to God and the meal giving to God, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 30. He set the basin between the Tent of Meeting and the prayer spot, and put water therein, with which to wash.
 31. Moses, Aaron, and his sons washed their hands and their feet there.
 32. When they went into the Tent of Meeting, and when they came near to the prayer spot, they washed, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 33. He raised up the court around the tabernacle and the prayer spot, and set up the screen of the gate of the court. So Moses finished the work.
 34. then the cloud covered the Tent of Meeting, and the glory of Yahweh filled the tabernacle.
 35. Moses wasn’t able to enter into the Tent of Meeting, cuz the cloud stayed on it, and Yahweh’s glory filled the tabernacle.
 36. When the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel went onward, throughout all their journeys;
 37. but if the cloud wasn’t taken up, then they didn’t travel until the day that it was taken up.
 38. For the cloud of Yahweh was on the tabernacle by day, and there was fire in the cloud by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys.


EZEKIEL
-------

# Ezekiel Chapter 1

  1. now it happened in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, in the fifth of the month, as I was among the captives by the river Chebar, that the heavens were opened, and I checked out visions of God.
  2. In the fifth of the month, which was the fifth year of ruler Jehoiachin’s captivity,
  3. the word of Yahweh came expressly to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and the hand of Yahweh was there on him.
  4. I looked, and check this out, a stormy wind came out of the north, a major cloud, with flashing lightning, and a brightness around it, and out of its midst as it were glowing metal, out of the midst of the fire.
  5. Out of its midst came the likeness of four living creatures. This was their appearance: they had the likeness of a man.
  6. Everyone had four faces, and each one of them had four wings.
  7. Their feet were straight feet; and the sole of their feet was like the sole of a calf’s foot; and they sparkled like burnished brass.
  8. They had the hands of a man under their wings on their four sides; and the four of them had their faces and their wings thus:
  9. their wings were joined one to another; they didn’t turn when they went; each one went straight forward.
 10. As for the likeness of their faces, they had the face of a man; and the four of them had the face of a lion on the right side; and the four of them had the face of an ox on the left side; the four of them also had the face of an eagle.
 11. Such were their faces. Their wings were spread out above. Two wings of each one touched another, and two covered their bodies.
 12. Each one went straight forward: where the spirit was to slide, they went; they didn’t turn when they went.
 13. As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, like the appearance of torches: the fire went up and down among the living creatures; and the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning.
 14. The living creatures ran and returned as the appearance of a flash of lightning.
 15. now as I checked out the living creatures, check this out, one wheel on the earth beside the living creatures, for each of the four faces of it.
 16. The appearance of the wheels and their work was like a beryl: and the four of them had one likeness; and their appearance and their work was as it were a wheel within a wheel.
 17. When they went, they went in their four directions: they didn’t turn when they went.
 18. As for their rims, they were high and dreadful; and the four of them had their rims full of eyes all around.
 19. When the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them; and when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up.
 20. Wherever the spirit was to slide, they went; there was the spirit to slide: and the wheels were lifted up beside them; for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels.
 21. When those went, these went; and when those stood, these stood; and when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up beside them: for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels.
 22. Over the head of the living creature there was the likeness of an expanse, like the awesome crystal to look on, stretched forth over their heads above.
 23. Under the expanse were their wings straight, the one toward the other: each one had two which covered on this side, and every one had two which covered on that side, their bodies.
 24. When they went, I heard the noise of their wings like the noise of major waters, like the voice of the Almighty, a noise of tumult like the noise of an army: when they stood, they let down their wings.
 25. there was a voice above the expanse that was over their heads: when they stood, they let down their wings.
 26. Above the expanse that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne, as the appearance of a sapphire stone; and on the likeness of the throne was a likeness as the appearance of a man on it above.
 27. I checked out as it were glowing metal, as the appearance of fire within it all around, from the appearance of his waist and upward; and from the appearance of his waist and downward I checked out as it were the appearance of fire, and there was brightness around him.
 28. As the appearance of the rainbow that is in the cloud in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness all around. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of Yahweh. When I checked out it, I fell on my face, and I heard a voice of one that spoke.

# Ezekiel Chapter 2

  1. He said to me, Son of man, stand on your feet, and I will spill the tea with you.
  2. The Spirit entered into me when he spoke to me, and set me on my feet; and I heard him who spoke to me.
  3. He said to me, Son of man, I send you to the children of Israel, to a nation of rebels who have rebelled against me. They and their fathers have transgressed against me even to this hella day.
  4. The children are impudent and stiff-hearted: I am sending you to them; and you shall tell them, God's like Yahweh.
  5. They, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear, (for they are a rebellious house), yet shall get it that there has been a God's messenger among them.
  6. You, son of man, don’t be scared of them, neither be scared of their words, though briers and thorns are with you, and you do dwell among scorpions: don’t be scared of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, though they are a rebellious house.
  7. You shall spill the tea my words to them, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear; for they are most rebellious.
  8. But you, son of man, hear what I tell you; don’t be rebellious like that rebellious house: open your mouth, and eat that which I hook it up you.
  9. When I looked, check this out, a hand was put forth to me; and, check this out, a scroll of a book was therein;
 10. He spread it before me: and it was written within and without; and there were written therein lamentations, and mourning, and woe.

# Ezekiel Chapter 3

  1. He said to me, Son of man, eat that which you find. Eat this scroll, and slide, spill the tea to the house of Israel.
  2. So I opened my mouth, and he caused me to eat the scroll.
  3. He said to me, Son of man, cause your belly to eat, and fill your bowels with this scroll that I hook it up you. then I ate it; and it was as sweet as honey in my mouth.
  4. He said to me, Son of man, slide to the house of Israel, and spill the tea my words to them.
  5. For you are not sent to a people of a strange speech and of a hard language, but to the house of Israel;
  6. not to a lot peoples of a strange speech and of a hard language, whose words you can not understand. Surely, if I sent you to them, they would listen up to you.
  7. But the house of Israel will not listen up to you; for they will not listen up to me: for all the house of Israel are obstinate and hard-hearted.
  8. check this out, I have made your face hard against their faces, and your forehead hard against their foreheads.
  9. As an adamant harder than flint have I made your forehead: don’t be scared of them, neither be dismayed at their looks, though they are a rebellious house.
 10. Moreover he said to me, Son of man, all my words that I shall spill the tea to you receive in your heart, and hear with your ears.
 11. slide to them of the captivity, to the children of your people, and spill the tea to them, and tell them, God's like Yahweh; whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear.
 12. then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a major rushing, saying, blessed up be the glory of Yahweh from his place.
 13. I heard the noise of the wings of the living creatures as they touched one another, and the noise of the wheels beside them, even the noise of a major rushing.
 14. So the Spirit lifted me up, and took me away; and I went in bitterness, in the heat of my spirit; and the hand of Yahweh was built different on me.
 15. then I came to them of the captivity at Tel Aviv, that lived by the river Chebar, and to where they lived; and I sat there overwhelmed among them seven days.
 16. It happened at the end of seven days, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 17. Son of man, I have made you a watchman to the house of Israel: so basically hear the word from my mouth, and hook it up them warning from me.
 18. When I tell the wicked, You shall surely die; and you hook it up him no warning, nor spill the tea to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to rescue his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at your hand.
 19. Yet if you warn the wicked, and he doesn’t turn from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but you have delivered your soul.
 20. Again, when a doing what's right man does turn from his righteousness, and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die: cuz you have not given him warning, he shall die in his messing up, and his doing what's right deeds which he has done shall not be remembered; but his blood will I require at your hand.
 21. Nevertheless if you warn the doing what's right man, that the doing what's right not messing up, and he does not messing up, he shall surely live, cuz he took warning; and you have delivered your soul.
 22. The hand of Yahweh was there on me; and he said to me, Arise, slide forth into the plain, and I will there talk with you.
 23. then I arose, and went forth into the plain: and check this out, the glory of Yahweh stood there, as the glory which I checked out by the river Chebar; and I fell on my face.
 24. then the Spirit entered into me, and set me on my feet; and he spoke with me, and said to me, slide, shut yourself inside your house.
 25. But you, son of man, check this out, they shall lay bands on you, and shall bind you with them, and you shall not slide out among them:
 26. and I will create your tongue stick to the roof of your mouth, that you shall be mute, and shall not be to them a reprover; for they are a rebellious house.
 27. But when I spill the tea with you, I will open your mouth, and you shall tell them, God's like Yahweh: He who hears, let him hear; and he who forbears, let him forbear: for they are a rebellious house.

# Ezekiel Chapter 4

  1. You also, son of man, grab a tile, and lay it before yourself, and portray on it a city, even Jerusalem:
  2. and lay siege against it, and put together forts against it, and cast up a mound against it; set camps also against it, and plant battering rams against it all around.
  3. grab for yourself an iron pan, and set it for a wall of iron between you and the city: and set your face toward it, and it shall be besieged, and you shall lay siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel.
  4. Moreover lie on your left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel on it; according to the number of the days that you shall lie on it, you shall bear their iniquity.
  5. For I have appointed the years of their iniquity to be to you a number of days, even three hundred ninety days: so you shall bear the iniquity of the house of Israel.
  6. Again, when you have accomplished these, you shall lie on your right side, and shall bear the iniquity of the house of Judah: forty days, each day for a year, have I appointed it to you.
  7. You shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem, with your arm uncovered; and you shall prophesy against it.
  8. check this out, I lay bands on you, and you shall not turn you from one side to the other, until you have accomplished the days of your siege.
  9. grab for yourself also wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and spelt, and put them in one vessel, and create bread of it; according to the number of the days that you shall lie on your side, even three hundred ninety days, you shall eat of it.
 10. Your food which you shall eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day: from time to time you shall eat it.
 11. You shall drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin: from time to time you shall drink.
 12. You shall eat it as barley cakes, and you shall bake it in their sight with dung that comes out of man.
 13. Yahweh said, Even thus shall the children of Israel eat their bread unclean, among the nations where I will drive them.
 14. then I said, Ah boss Yahweh! check this out, my soul has not been polluted; for from my youth up even until now have I not eaten of that which dies of itself, or is torn of animals; neither came there abominable flesh into my mouth.
 15. then he said to me, check this out, I have given you cow’s dung for man’s dung, and you shall prepare your bread thereon.
 16. Moreover he said to me, Son of man, check this out, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by weight, and with fearfulness; and they shall drink water by measure, and in dismay:
 17. that they may want bread and water, and be dismayed one with another, and pine away in their iniquity.

# Ezekiel Chapter 5

  1. You, son of man, grab a sharp sword; You shall grab it as a barber’s razor to you, and shall cause it to pass on your head and on your beard: then grab balances to weigh, and divide the hair.
  2. A third part you shall burn in the fire in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are fulfilled; and you shall grab a third part, and strike with the sword around it; and a third part you shall scatter to the wind, and I will draw out a sword after them.
  3. You shall grab of it a not much in number, and bind them in your skirts.
  4. Of these again you shall grab, and cast them into the midst of the fire, and burn them in the fire; from it shall a fire come through forth into all the house of Israel.
  5. God's like Yahweh: This is Jerusalem; I have set her in the midst of the nations, and countries are around her.
  6. She has rebelled against my ordinances in doing wickedness more than the nations, and against my statutes more than the countries that are around her; for they have rejected my ordinances, and as for my statutes, they have not walked in them.
  7. so basically God's like Yahweh: cuz you are turbulent more than the nations that are around you, and have not walked in my statutes, neither have kept my ordinances, neither have done after the ordinances of the nations that are around you;
  8. so basically God's like Yahweh: check this out, I, even I, am against you; and I will execute judgments in the midst of you in the sight of the nations.
  9. I will do in you that which I have not done, and whereunto I will not do any more the like, cuz of all your abominations.
 10. so basically the fathers shall eat the sons in the midst of you, and the sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments on you; and the whole remnant of you will I scatter to all the winds.
 11. so basically, as I live, says the boss Yahweh, surely, cuz you have defiled my sanctuary with all your detestable things, and with all your abominations, so basically will I also diminish you; neither shall my eye spare, and I also will have no pity.
 12. A third part of you shall die with the pestilence, and with famine shall they be consumed in the midst of you; and a third part shall fall by the sword around you; and a third part I will scatter to all the winds, and will draw out a sword after them.
 13. Thus shall my anger be accomplished, and I will cause my wrath toward them to rest, and I shall be comforted; and they shall get it that I, Yahweh, have spoken in my zeal, when I have accomplished my wrath on them.
 14. Moreover I will create you a desolation and a reproach among the nations that are around you, in the sight of all that pass by.
 15. So it shall be a reproach and a taunt, an instruction and an astonishment, to the nations that are around you, when I shall execute judgments on you in anger and in wrath, and in wrathful rebukes; (I, Yahweh, have spoken it;)
 16. when I shall send on them the evil arrows of famine, that are for destruction, which I will send to tear down you: and I will increase the famine on you, and will break your staff of bread;
 17. and I will send on you famine and evil animals, and they shall bereave you; and pestilence and blood shall pass through you; and I will bring the sword on you: I, Yahweh, have spoken it.

# Ezekiel Chapter 6

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy to them,
  3. and say, You mountains of Israel, hear what God was like Yahweh: God's like Yahweh to the mountains and to the hills, to the watercourses and to the valleys: check this out, I, even I, will bring a sword on you, and I will tear down your high places.
  4. Your altars shall become desolate, and your incense altars shall be broken; and I will cast down your slain men before your idols.
  5. I will lay the dead bodies of the children of Israel before their idols; and I will scatter your bones around your altars.
  6. In all your dwelling places the cities shall be laid waste, and the high places shall be desolate; that your altars may be laid waste and made desolate, and your idols may be broken and cease, and your incense altars may be cut down, and your works may be abolished.
  7. The slain shall fall in the midst of you, and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  8. Yet will I leave a remnant, in that you shall have some that escape the sword among the nations, when you shall be scattered through the countries.
  9. Those of you that escape shall remember me among the nations where they shall be carried captive, how that I have been broken with their lewd heart, which has departed from me, and with their eyes, which play the prostitute after their idols: and they shall loathe themselves in their own sight for the evils which they have committed in all their abominations.
 10. They shall get it that I am Yahweh: I have not said in vain that I would do this evil to them.
 11. God's like Yahweh: Strike with your hand, and stamp with your foot, and say, Alas! cuz of all the evil abominations of the house of Israel; for they shall fall by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence.
 12. He who is far off shall die of the pestilence; and he who is near shall fall by the sword; and he who remains and is besieged shall die by the famine: thus will I accomplish my wrath on them.
 13. You shall get it that I am Yahweh, when their slain men shall be among their idols around their altars, on every high hill, on all the tops of the mountains, and under every green tree, and under every thick oak, the places where they offered pleasant aroma to all their idols.
 14. I will stretch out my hand on them, and create the land desolate and waste, from the wilderness toward Diblah, throughout all their habitations: and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 7

  1. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. You, son of man, God's like Yahweh to the land of Israel, An end: the end has come through on the four corners of the land.
  3. now is the end on you, and I will send my anger on you, and will judge you according to your ways; and I will bring on you all your abominations.
  4. My eye shall not spare you, neither will I have pity; but I will bring your ways on you, and your abominations shall be in the midst of you: and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  5. God's like Yahweh: An evil, an only evil; check this out, it comes.
  6. An end has come through, the end has come through; it awakes against you; check this out, it comes.
  7. Your doom has come through to you, inhabitant of the land: the time has come through, the day is near, a day of tumult, and not of joyful shouting, on the mountains.
  8. now will I shortly pour out my wrath on you, and accomplish my anger against you, and will judge you according to your ways; and I will bring on you all your abominations.
  9. My eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: I will bring on you according to your ways; and your abominations shall be in the midst of you; and you shall get it that I, Yahweh, do strike.
 10. check this out, the day, check this out, it comes: your doom is gone forth; the rod has blossomed, pride has budded.
 11. Violence has risen up into a rod of wickedness. None of them shall remain, nor of their multitude, nor of their wealth. there shall be nothing of value among them.
 12. The time has come through, the day draws near: don’t let the buyer be hyped, nor the seller mourn; for wrath is on all its multitude.
 13. For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although they be yet alive: for the vision is touching the whole multitude of it, none shall return; neither shall any strengthen himself in the iniquity of his life.
 14. They have blown the trumpet, and have made all ready; but none goes to the battle; for my wrath is on all its multitude.
 15. The sword is outside, and the pestilence and the famine within: he who is in the field shall die with the sword: and he who is in the city, famine and pestilence shall devour him.
 16. But those of those who escape shall escape, and shall be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them moaning, every one in his iniquity.
 17. All hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be not it as water.
 18. They shall also clothe themselves with sackcloth, and horror shall cover them; and shame shall be on all faces, and baldness on all their heads.
 19. They shall cast their silver in the streets, and their gold shall be as an unclean thing; their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of Yahweh: they shall not satisfy their souls, neither fill their bowels; cuz it has been the stumbling block of their iniquity.
 20. As for the beauty of his ornament, he set it in majesty; but they made the images of their abominations and their detestable things therein: so basically have I made it to them as an unclean thing.
 21. I will hook it up it into the hands of the strangers for a prey, and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil; and they shall profane it.
 22. My face will I turn also from them, and they shall profane my secret place; and robbers shall enter into it, and profane it.
 23. create the chain; for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the city is full of violence.
 24. so basically I will bring the worst of the nations, and they shall possess their houses: I will also create the pride of the built different to cease; and their set apart places shall be profaned.
 25. Destruction comes; and they shall seek peace, and there shall be none.
 26. Mischief shall come through on mischief, and rumor shall be on rumor; and they shall seek a vision of the God's messenger; but the law shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the elders.
 27. The ruler shall mourn, and the prince shall be clothed with desolation, and the hands of the people of the land shall be troubled: I will do to them after their way, and according to their own judgments will I judge them; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 8

  1. It happened in the sixth year, in the sixth month, in the day five of the month, as I sat in my house, and the elders of Judah sat before me, that the hand of the boss Yahweh fell there on me.
  2. then I checked out, and check this out, a likeness as the appearance of fire; from the appearance of his waist and downward, fire; and from his waist and upward, as the appearance of brightness, as it were glowing metal.
  3. He put forth the form of a hand, and took me by a lock of my head; and the Spirit lifted me up between earth and the sky, and brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem, to the door of the gate of the inner court that looks toward the north; where there was the seat of the image of jealousy, which provokes to jealousy.
  4. check this out, the glory of the God of Israel was there, according to the appearance that I checked out in the plain.
  5. then he said to me, Son of man, lift up your eyes now the way toward the north. So I lifted up my eyes the way toward the north, and check it out, northward of the gate of the prayer spot this image of jealousy in the entry.
  6. He said to me, Son of man, do you check it out what they do? even the major abominations that the house of Israel do commit here, that I should slide far off from my sanctuary? But you shall again check it out yet other major abominations.
  7. He brought me to the door of the court; and when I looked, check this out, a hole in the wall.
  8. then he said to me, Son of man, dig now in the wall: and when I had dug in the wall, check this out, a door.
  9. He said to me, slide in, and check it out the wicked abominations that they do here.
 10. So I went in and checked out; and check it out, every form of creeping things, and abominable animals, and all the idols of the house of Israel, portrayed around on the wall.
 11. there stood before them seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel; and in their midst stood Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan, every man with his censer in his hand; and the odor of the cloud of incense went up.
 12. then he said to me, Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel do in the dark, every man in his rooms of imagery? for they say, Yahweh doesn’t check it out us; Yahweh has forsaken the land.
 13. He said also to me, You shall again check it out yet other major abominations which they do.
 14. then he brought me to the door of the gate of Yahweh’s house which was toward the north; and check it out, there sat the women weeping for Tammuz.
 15. then he said to me, Have you seen this, son of man? You shall again check it out yet greater abominations than these.
 16. He brought me into the inner court of Yahweh’s house; and check it out, at the door of the God's house of Yahweh, between the porch and the prayer spot, were about twenty-five men, with their backs toward the God's house of Yahweh, and their faces toward the east; and they were worshipping the sun toward the east.
 17. then he said to me, Have you seen this, son of man? Is it a light thing to the house of Judah that they commit the abominations which they commit here? for they have filled the land with violence, and have turned again to provoke me to anger: and check this out, they put the branch to their nose.
 18. so basically will I also deal in wrath; my eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity; and though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, yet will I not hear them.

# Ezekiel Chapter 9

  1. then he cried in my ears with a loud voice, saying, Cause those who are in charge of the city to draw near, every man with his destroying weapon in his hand.
  2. check this out, six men came from the way of the upper gate, which lies toward the north, every man with his slaughter weapon in his hand; and one man in their midst clothed in linen, with a writer’s inkhorn by his side. They went in, and stood beside the bronze prayer spot.
  3. The glory of the God of Israel was gone up from the cherub, whereupon it was, to the threshold of the house: and he called to the man clothed in linen, who had the writer’s inkhorn by his side.
  4. Yahweh said to him, slide through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark on the foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry over all the abominations that are done in its midst.
  5. To the others he said in my hearing, slide through the city after him, and strike: don’t let your eye spare, neither have pity;
  6. kill utterly the old man, the young man and the virgin, and little children and women; but don’t come through near any man on whom is the mark: and begin at my sanctuary. then they began at the old men that were before the house.
  7. He said to them, Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain. slide forth! They went forth, and struck in the city.
  8. It happened, while they were smiting, and I was left, that I fell on my face, and cried, and said, Ah boss Yahweh! will you tear down all the residue of Israel in your pouring out of your wrath on Jerusalem?
  9. then he said to me, The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah is exceedingly major, and the land is full of blood, and the city full of perversion: for they say, Yahweh has forsaken the land, and Yahweh doesn’t check it out.
 10. As for me also, my eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity, but I will bring their way on their head.
 11. check this out, the man clothed in linen, who had the inkhorn by his side, reported the matter, saying, I have done as you have commanded me.

# Ezekiel Chapter 10

  1. then I looked, and check it out, in the expanse that was over the head of the cherubim there appeared above them as it were a sapphire stone, as the appearance of the likeness of a throne.
  2. He spoke to the man clothed in linen, and said, slide in between the whirling wheels, even under the cherub, and fill both your hands with coals of fire from between the cherubim, and scatter them over the city. He went in as I watched.
  3. now the cherubim stood on the right side of the house, when the man went in; and the cloud filled the inner court.
  4. The glory of Yahweh mounted up from the cherub, and stood over the threshold of the house; and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of Yahweh’s glory.
  5. The sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard even to the outer court, as the voice of God Almighty when he speaks.
  6. It came to pass, when he commanded the man clothed in linen, saying, grab fire from between the whirling wheels, from between the cherubim, that he went in, and stood beside a wheel.
  7. The cherub stretched forth his hand from between the cherubim to the fire that was between the cherubim, and took of it, and put it into the hands of him who was clothed in linen, who took it and went out.
  8. there appeared in the cherubim the form of a man’s hand under their wings.
  9. I looked, and check this out, four wheels beside the cherubim, one wheel beside one cherub, and another wheel beside another cherub; and the appearance of the wheels was like a beryl stone.
 10. As for their appearance, the four of them had one likeness, like a wheel within a wheel.
 11. When they went, they went in their four directions: they didn’t turn as they went, but to the place where the head looked they followed it; they didn’t turn as they went.
 12. Their whole body, and their backs, and their hands, and their wings, and the wheels, were full of eyes all around, even the wheels that the four of them had.
 13. As for the wheels, they were called in my hearing, the whirling wheels.
 14. Every one had four faces: the first face was the face of the cherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and the third face the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle.
 15. The cherubim mounted up: this is the living creature that I checked out by the river Chebar.
 16. When the cherubim went, the wheels went beside them; and when the cherubim lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, the wheels also didn’t turn from beside them.
 17. When they stood, these stood; and when they mounted up, these mounted up with them: for the spirit of the living creature was in them.
 18. The glory of Yahweh went forth from over the threshold of the house, and stood over the cherubim.
 19. The cherubim lifted up their wings, and mounted up from the earth in my sight when they went forth, and the wheels beside them: and they stood at the door of the east gate of Yahweh’s house; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.
 20. This is the living creature that I checked out under the God of Israel by the river Chebar; and I knew that they were cherubim.
 21. Every one had four faces, and every one four wings; and the likeness of the hands of a man was under their wings.
 22. As for the likeness of their faces, they were the faces which I checked out by the river Chebar, their appearances and themselves; they went every one straight forward.

# Ezekiel Chapter 11

  1. Moreover the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me to the east gate of Yahweh’s house, which looks eastward: and check it out, at the door of the gate twenty-five men; and I checked out in their midst Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.
  2. He said to me, Son of man, these are the men who devise iniquity, and who hook it up wicked counsel in this city;
  3. who say, The time is not near to put together houses: this is the caldron, and we are the meat.
  4. so basically prophesy against them, prophesy, son of man.
  5. The Spirit of Yahweh fell on me, and he said to me, spill the tea, Thus says Yahweh: Thus you have said, house of Israel; for I get it the things that come through into your mind.
  6. You have multiplied your slain in this city, and you have filled its streets with the slain.
  7. so basically God's like Yahweh: Your slain whom you have laid in its midst, they are the meat, and this is the caldron; but you shall be brought out of its midst.
  8. You have feared the sword; and I will bring the sword on you, says the boss Yahweh.
  9. I will bring you forth out of its midst, and deliver you into the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among you.
 10. You shall fall by the sword; I will judge you in the border of Israel; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 11. This shall not be your caldron, neither shall you be the meat in its midst; I will judge you in the border of Israel;
 12. and you shall get it that I am Yahweh: for you have not walked in my statutes, neither have you executed my ordinances, but have done after the ordinances of the nations that are around you.
 13. It happened, when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. then fell I down on my face, and cried with a loud voice, and said, Ah boss Yahweh! will you create a full end of the remnant of Israel?
 14. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 15. Son of man, your brothers, even your brothers, the men of your relatives, and all the house of Israel, all of them, to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, slide far away from Yahweh. This land has been given to us for a possession.
 16. so basically say, God's like Yahweh: Whereas I have removed them far off among the nations, and whereas I have scattered them among the countries, yet will I be to them a sanctuary for a little while in the countries where they have come through.
 17. so basically say, God's like Yahweh: I will gather you from the peoples, and assemble you out of the countries where you have been scattered, and I will hook it up you the land of Israel.
 18. They shall come through there, and they shall grab away all the detestable things of it and all its abominations from there.
 19. I will hook it up them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will grab the stony heart out of their flesh, and will hook it up them a heart of flesh;
 20. that they may walk in my statutes, and keep my ordinances, and do them: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
 21. But as for them whose heart walks after the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their way on their own heads, says the boss Yahweh.
 22. then the cherubim lifted up their wings, and the wheels were beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.
 23. The glory of Yahweh went up from the midst of the city, and stood on the mountain which is on the east side of the city.
 24. The Spirit lifted me up, and brought me in the vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to them of the captivity. So the vision that I had seen went up from me.
 25. then I spoke to them of the captivity all the things that Yahweh had shown me.

# Ezekiel Chapter 12

  1. The word of Yahweh also came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, you dwell in the midst of the rebellious house, who have eyes to check it out, and don’t check it out, who have ears to hear, and don’t hear; for they are a rebellious house.
  3. so basically, you son of man, prepare your stuff for moving, and move by day in their sight; and you shall move from your place to another place in their sight: it may be they will consider, though they are a rebellious house.
  4. You shall bring forth your stuff by day in their sight, as stuff for moving; and you shall slide forth yourself at even in their sight, as when men slide forth into exile.
  5. Dig through the wall in their sight, and carry your stuff out that way.
  6. In their sight you shall bear it on your shoulder, and carry it forth in the dark; you shall cover your face, so that you don’t check it out the land: for I have set you for a sign to the house of Israel.
  7. I did so as I was commanded: I brought forth my stuff by day, as stuff for removing, and in the even I dug through the wall with my hand; I brought it forth in the dark, and bore it on my shoulder in their sight.
  8. In the morning came the word of Yahweh to me, saying,
  9. Son of man, has not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, said to you, What are you doing?
 10. Say to them, God's like Yahweh: This burden concerns the prince in Jerusalem, and all the house of Israel among whom they are.
 11. Say, I am your sign: like as I have done, so shall it be done to them; they shall slide into exile, into captivity.
 12. The prince who is among them shall bear on his shoulder in the dark, and shall slide forth: they shall dig through the wall to carry out thereby: he shall cover his face, cuz he shall not check it out the land with his eyes.
 13. My net also will I spread on him, and he shall be taken in my snare; and I will bring him to Babylon to the land of the Chaldeans; yet shall he not check it out it, though he shall die there.
 14. I will scatter toward every wind all who are around him to help out him, and all his bands; and I will draw out the sword after them.
 15. They shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I shall disperse them among the nations, and scatter them through the countries.
 16. But I will leave a not much men of them from the sword, from the famine, and from the pestilence; that they may declare all their abominations among the nations where they come through; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 17. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 18. Son of man, eat your bread with quaking, and drink your water with trembling and with fearfulness;
 19. and tell the people of the land, God's like Yahweh concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the land of Israel: They shall eat their bread with fearfulness, and drink their water in dismay, that her land may be desolate, and all that is therein, cuz of the violence of all those who dwell therein.
 20. The cities that are inhabited shall be laid waste, and the land shall be a desolation; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 21. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 22. Son of man, what is this proverb that you have in the land of Israel, saying, The days are prolonged, and every vision fails?
 23. Tell them so basically, God's like Yahweh: I will create this proverb to cease, and they shall no more use it as a proverb in Israel; but tell them, The days are at hand, and the fulfillment of every vision.
 24. For there shall be no more any false vision nor flattering divination within the house of Israel.
 25. For I am Yahweh; I will spill the tea, and the word that I shall spill the tea shall be performed; it shall be no more deferred: for in your days, rebellious house, will I spill the tea the word, and will perform it, says the boss Yahweh.
 26. Again the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 27. Son of man, check this out, they of the house of Israel say, The vision that he sees is for a lot day to come through, and he prophesies of times that are far off.
 28. so basically tell them, God's like Yahweh: None of my words shall be deferred any more, but the word which I shall spill the tea shall be performed, says the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 13

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who prophesy, and say to those who prophesy out of their own heart, Hear the word of Yahweh:
  3. God's like Yahweh, Woe to the dumb prophets, who roll with their own spirit, and have seen nothing!
  4. Israel, your prophets have been like foxes in the waste places.
  5. You have not gone up into the gaps, neither built up the wall for the house of Israel, to stand in the battle in the day of Yahweh.
  6. They have seen falsehood and lying divination, who say, Yahweh says; but Yahweh has not sent them: and they have made men to hope that the word would be confirmed.
  7. Haven’t you seen a false vision, and haven’t you spoken a lying divination, in that you say, Yahweh says; but I have not spoken?
  8. so basically God's like Yahweh: cuz you have spoken falsehood, and seen lies, so basically, check this out, I am against you, says the boss Yahweh.
  9. My hand shall be against the prophets who check it out false visions, and who divine lies: they shall not be in the council of my people, neither shall they be written in the writing of the house of Israel, neither shall they enter into the land of Israel; and you shall get it that I am the boss Yahweh.
 10. cuz, even cuz they have seduced my people, saying, Peace; and there is no peace; and when one builds up a wall, check this out, they plaster it with whitewash:
 11. tell those who plaster it with whitewash, that it shall fall: there shall be an overflowing shower; and you, major hailstones, shall fall; and a stormy wind shall tear it.
 12. check this out, when the wall has fallen, shall it not be said to you, Where is the plaster with which you have plastered it?
 13. so basically God's like Yahweh: I will even tear it with a stormy wind in my wrath; and there shall be an overflowing shower in my anger, and major hailstones in wrath to consume it.
 14. So will I break down the wall that you have plastered with whitewash, and bring it down to the ground, so that its foundation shall be uncovered; and it shall fall, and you shall be consumed in its midst: and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 15. Thus will I accomplish my wrath on the wall, and on those who have plastered it with whitewash; and I will tell you, The wall is no more, neither those who plastered it;
 16. to wit, the prophets of Israel who prophesy concerning Jerusalem, and who check it out visions of peace for her, and there is no peace, says the boss Yahweh.
 17. You, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people, who prophesy out of their own heart; and prophesy against them,
 18. and say, God's like Yahweh: Woe to the women who sew pillows on all elbows, and create kerchiefs for the head of persons of every stature to hunt souls! Will you hunt the souls of my people, and rescue souls alive for yourselves?
 19. You have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, to kill the souls who should not die, and to rescue the souls alive who should not live, by your lying to my people who listen up to lies.
 20. so basically God's like Yahweh: check this out, I am against your pillows, with which you there hunt the souls to create them fly, and I will tear them from your arms; and I will let the souls slide, even the souls whom you hunt to create them fly.
 21. Your kerchiefs also will I tear, and deliver my people out of your hand, and they shall be no more in your hand to be hunted; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 22. cuz with lies you have grieved the heart of the doing what's right, whom I have not made sad; and strengthened the hands of the wicked, that he should not return from his wicked way, and be saved alive:
 23. so basically you shall no more check it out false visions, nor practice divination. I will deliver my people out of your hand; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 14

  1. then came certain of the elders of Israel to me, and sat before me.
  2. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  3. Son of man, these men have taken their idols into their heart, and put the stumbling block of their iniquity before their face: should I be inquired of at all by them?
  4. so basically spill the tea to them, and tell them, God's like Yahweh: Every man of the house of Israel who takes his idols into his heart, and puts the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and comes to the God's messenger; I Yahweh will answer him therein according to the multitude of his idols;
  5. that I may grab the house of Israel in their own heart, cuz they are all estranged from me through their idols.
  6. so basically tell the house of Israel, God's like Yahweh: Return, and turn yourselves from your idols; and turn away your faces from all your abominations.
  7. For everyone of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who live in Israel, who separates himself from me, and takes his idols into his heart, and puts the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and comes to the God's messenger to inquire for himself of me; I Yahweh will answer him by myself:
  8. and I will set my face against that man, and will create him an astonishment, for a sign and a proverb, and I will cut him off from the midst of my people; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  9. If the God's messenger is deceived and spill the tea a word, I, Yahweh, have deceived that God's messenger, and I will stretch out my hand on him, and will tear down him from the midst of my people Israel.
 10. They shall bear their iniquity: the iniquity of the God's messenger shall be even as the iniquity of him who seeks him;
 11. that the house of Israel may slide no more astray from me, neither defile themselves any more with all their transgressions; but that they may be my people, and I may be their God, says the boss Yahweh.
 12. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 13. Son of man, when a land sins against me by committing a trespass, and I stretch out my hand on it, and break the staff of its bread, and send famine on it, and cut off from it man and animal;
 14. though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they should deliver but their own souls by their righteousness, says the boss Yahweh.
 15. If I cause evil animals to pass through the land, and they ravage it, and it be made desolate, so that no man may pass through cuz of the animals;
 16. though these three men were in it, as I live, says the boss Yahweh, they should deliver neither sons nor daughters; they only should be delivered, but the land should be desolate.
 17. Or if I bring a sword on that land, and say, Sword, slide through the land; so that I cut off from it man and animal;
 18. though these three men were in it, as I live, says the boss Yahweh, they should deliver neither sons nor daughters, but they only should be delivered themselves.
 19. Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out my wrath on it in blood, to cut off from it man and animal;
 20. though Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, as I live, says the boss Yahweh, they should deliver neither son nor daughter; they should but deliver their own souls by their righteousness.
 21. For God's like Yahweh: How much more when I send my four severe judgments on Jerusalem, the sword, and the famine, and the evil animals, and the pestilence, to cut off from it man and animal!
 22. Yet, check this out, therein shall be left a remnant that shall be carried forth, both sons and daughters: check this out, they shall come through forth to you, and you shall check it out their way and their doings; and you shall be comforted concerning the evil that I have brought on Jerusalem, even concerning all that I have brought on it.
 23. They shall comfort you, when you check it out their way and their doings; and you shall get it that I have not done without cause all that I have done in it, says the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 15

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, what is the vine tree more than any tree, the vine-branch which is among the trees of the forest?
  3. Shall wood be taken of it to create any work? or will men grab a pin of it to hang any vessel thereon?
  4. check this out, it is cast into the fire for fuel; the fire has devoured both its ends, and its midst is burned: is it profitable for any work?
  5. check this out, when it was whole, it was meet for no work: how much less, when the fire has devoured it, and it is burned, shall it yet be meet for any work!
  6. so basically God's like Yahweh: As the vine tree among the trees of the forest, which I have given to the fire for fuel, so will I hook it up the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
  7. I will set my face against them; they shall slide forth from the fire, but the fire shall devour them; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I set my face against them.
  8. I will create the land desolate, cuz they have committed a trespass, says the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 16

  1. Again the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, cause Jerusalem to get it her abominations;
  3. and say, God's like Yahweh to Jerusalem: Your birth and your birth is of the land of the Canaanite; the Amorite was your father, and your mother was a Hittite.
  4. As for your birth, in the day you were born your navel was not cut, neither were you washed in water to cleanse you; you weren’t salted at all, nor swaddled at all.
  5. No eye pitied you, to do any of these things to you, to have compassion on you; but you were cast out in the open field, for that your person was abhorred, in the day that you were born.
  6. When I passed by you, and checked out you wallowing in your blood, I said to you, Though you are in your blood, live; yes, I said to you, Though you are in your blood, live.
  7. I caused you to multiply as that which grows in the field, and you increased and grew major, and you attained to excellent ornament; your breasts were fashioned, and your hair was grown; yet you were naked and bare.
  8. now when I passed by you, and looked at you, check this out, your time was the time of show love; and I spread my skirt over you, and covered your nakedness: yes, I swore to you, and entered into a God's promise with you, says the boss Yahweh, and you became mine.
  9. then washed I you with water; yes, I thoroughly washed away your blood from you, and I anointed you with oil.
 10. I clothed you also with embroidered work, and shod you with sealskin, and I dressed you about with fine linen, and covered you with silk.
 11. I decked you with ornaments, and I put bracelets on your hands, and a chain on your neck.
 12. I put a ring on your nose, and earrings in your ears, and a snatched crown on your head.
 13. Thus you were decked with gold and silver; and your clothing was of fine linen, and silk, and embroidered work; you ate fine flour, and honey, and oil; and you were exceeding snatched, and you prospered to royal estate.
 14. Your renown went forth among the nations for your beauty; for it was perfect, through my majesty which I had put on you, says the boss Yahweh.
 15. But you trusted in your beauty, and played the prostitute cuz of your renown, and poured out your prostitution on everyone who passed by; his it was.
 16. You took of your garments, and made for yourselves high places decked with various colors, and played the prostitute on them: the like things shall not come through, neither shall it be so.
 17. You also took your snatched jewels of my gold and of my silver, which I had given you, and made for yourself images of men, and played the prostitute with them;
 18. and you took your embroidered garments, and covered them, and set my oil and my incense before them.
 19. My bread also which I gave you, fine flour, and oil, and honey, with which I fed you, you even set it before them for a pleasant aroma; and thus it was, says the boss Yahweh.
 20. Moreover you have taken your sons and your daughters, whom you have borne to me, and you have sacrificed these to them to be devoured. Was your prostitution a tiny matter,
 21. that you have slain my children, and delivered them up, in causing them to pass through the fire to them?
 22. In all your abominations and your prostitution you have not remembered the days of your youth, when you were naked and bare, and were wallowing in your blood.
 23. It has happened after all your wickedness, (woe, woe to you! says the boss Yahweh),
 24. that you have built for yourselves a vaulted place, and have made yourselves a lofty place in every street.
 25. You have built your lofty place at the head of every way, and have made your beauty an abomination, and have opened your feet to everyone who passed by, and multiplied your prostitution.
 26. You have also committed sexual immorality with the Egyptians, your neighbors, major of flesh; and have multiplied your prostitution, to provoke me to anger.
 27. check it out so basically, I have stretched out my hand over you, and have diminished your ordinary food, and delivered you to the will of those who can't stand you, the daughters of the Philistines, who are ashamed of your lewd way.
 28. You have played the prostitute also with the Assyrians, cuz you were insatiable; yes, you have played the prostitute with them, and yet you weren’t satisfied.
 29. You have moreover multiplied your prostitution to the land of merchants, to Chaldea; and yet you weren’t satisfied with this.
 30. How not it is your heart, says the boss Yahweh, since you do all these things, the work of an impudent prostitute;
 31. in that you put together your vaulted place at the head of every way, and create your lofty place in every street, and have not been as a prostitute, in that you scorn pay.
 32. A wife who commits adultery! who takes strangers instead of her husband!
 33. They hook it up gifts to all prostitutes; but you hook it up your gifts to all your lovers, and bribe them, that they may come through to you on every side for your prostitution.
 34. You are different from other women in your prostitution, in that no one follows you to play the prostitute; and whereas you hook it up hire, and no hire is given to you, so basically you are different.
 35. so basically, prostitute, hear the word of Yahweh:
 36. God's like Yahweh, cuz your filthiness was poured out, and your nakedness uncovered through your prostitution with your lovers; and cuz of all the idols of your abominations, and for the blood of your children, that you gave to them;
 37. so basically check it out, I will gather all your lovers, with whom you have taken pleasure, and all those who you have loved, with all those who you have hated; I will even gather them against you on every side, and will uncover your nakedness to them, that they may check it out all your nakedness.
 38. I will judge you, as women who break wedlock and shed blood are judged; and I will bring on you the blood of wrath and jealousy.
 39. I will also hook it up you into their hand, and they shall throw down your vaulted place, and break down your lofty places; and they shall strip you of your clothes, and grab your snatched jewels; and they shall leave you naked and bare.
 40. They shall also bring up a company against you, and they shall stone you with stones, and thrust you through with their swords.
 41. They shall burn your houses with fire, and execute judgments on you in the sight of a lot women; and I will cause you to cease from playing the prostitute, and you shall also hook it up no hire any more.
 42. So will I cause my wrath toward you to rest, and my jealousy shall depart from you, and I will be quiet, and will be no more mad salty.
 43. cuz you have not remembered the days of your youth, but have raged against me in all these things; so basically, check this out, I also will bring your way on your head, says the boss Yahweh: and you shall not commit this lewdness with all your abominations.
 44. check this out, everyone who uses proverbs shall use this proverb against you, saying, As is the mother, so is her daughter.
 45. You are the daughter of your mother, who loathes her husband and her children; and you are the sister of your sisters, who loathed their husbands and their children: your mother was a Hittite, and your father an Amorite.
 46. Your elder sister is Samaria, who dwells at your left hand, she and her daughters; and your younger sister, who dwells at your right hand, is Sodom and her daughters.
 47. Yet have you not walked in their ways, nor done after their abominations; but, as if that were a hella little thing, you were more corrupt than they in all your ways.
 48. As I live, says the boss Yahweh, Sodom your sister has not done, she nor her daughters, as you have done, you and your daughters.
 49. check this out, this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom: pride, fullness of bread, and prosperous ease was in her and in her daughters; neither did she strengthen the hand of the broke and needy.
 50. They were haughty, and committed abomination before me: so basically I took them away as I checked out fire.
 51. Neither has Samaria committed half of your sins; but you have multiplied your abominations more than they, and have justified your sisters by all your abominations which you have done.
 52. You also, bear you your own shame, in that you have given judgment for your sisters; through your sins that you have committed more abominable than they, they are more doing what's right that you: yes, be also confounded, and bear your shame, in that you have justified your sisters.
 53. I will turn again their captivity, the captivity of Sodom and her daughters, and the captivity of Samaria and her daughters, and the captivity of your captives in their midst;
 54. that you may bear your own shame, and may be ashamed cuz of all that you have done, in that you are a comfort to them.
 55. Your sisters, Sodom and her daughters, shall return to their former estate; and Samaria and her daughters shall return to their former estate; and you and your daughters shall return to your former estate.
 56. For your sister Sodom was not mentioned by your mouth in the day of your pride,
 57. before your wickedness was uncovered, as at the time of the reproach of the daughters of Syria, and of all who are around her, the daughters of the Philistines, who do despite to you all around.
 58. You have borne your lewdness and your abominations, says Yahweh.
 59. For God's like Yahweh: I will also deal with you as you have done, who have despised the oath in breaking the God's promise.
 60. Nevertheless I will remember my God's promise with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish to you an everlasting God's promise.
 61. then you shall remember your ways, and be ashamed, when you shall receive your sisters, your elder sisters and your younger; and I will hook it up them to you for daughters, but not by your God's promise.
 62. I will establish my God's promise with you; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh;
 63. that you may remember, and be confounded, and never open your mouth any more, cuz of your shame, when I have forgiven you all that you have done, says the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 17

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, put forth a riddle, and spill the tea a parable to the house of Israel;
  3. and say, God's like Yahweh: A major eagle with major wings and long feathers, full of feathers, which had various colors, came to Lebanon, and took the top of the cedar:
  4. he cropped off the topmost of the young twigs of it, and carried it to a land of traffic; he set it in a city of merchants.
  5. He took also of the seed of the land, and planted it in a fruitful soil; he placed it beside a lot waters; he set it as a willow tree.
  6. It grew, and became a spreading vine of low stature, whose branches turned toward him, and its roots were under him: so it became a vine, and brought forth branches, and shot forth sprigs.
  7. there was also another major eagle with major wings and a lot feathers: and check this out, this vine bent its roots toward him, and shot forth its branches toward him, from the beds of its plantation, that he might water it.
  8. It was planted in a fire soil by a lot waters, that it might bring forth branches, and that it might bear fruit, that it might be a goodly vine.
  9. Say, God's like Yahweh: Shall it prosper? shall he not pull up its roots, and cut off its fruit, that it may wither; that all its fresh springing leaves may wither? and not by a built different arm or a lot people can it be raised from its roots.
 10. Yes, check this out, being planted, shall it prosper? shall it not utterly wither, when the east wind touches it? it shall wither in the beds where it grew.
 11. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 12. Say now to the rebellious house, Don’t you get it what these things mean? tell them, check this out, the ruler of Babylon came to Jerusalem, and took its ruler, and its princes, and brought them to him to Babylon:
 13. and he took of the seed royal, and made a God's promise with him; he also brought him under an oath, and took away the mighty of the land;
 14. that the God's squad might be base, that it might not lift itself up, but that by keeping his God's promise it might stand.
 15. But he rebelled against him in sending his ambassadors into Egypt, that they might hook it up him horses and a lot people. Shall he prosper? shall he escape who does such things? shall he break the God's promise, and yet escape?
 16. As I live, says the boss Yahweh, surely in the place where the ruler dwells who made him ruler, whose oath he despised, and whose God's promise he broke, even with him in the midst of Babylon he shall die.
 17. Neither shall Pharaoh with his mighty army and major company help out him in the war, when they cast up mounds and put together forts, to cut off a lot persons.
 18. For he has despised the oath by breaking the God's promise; and check this out, he had given his hand, and yet has done all these things; he shall not escape.
 19. so basically God's like Yahweh: As I live, surely my oath that he has despised, and my God's promise that he has broken, I will even bring it on his own head.
 20. I will spread my net on him, and he shall be taken in my snare, and I will bring him to Babylon, and will enter into judgment with him there for his trespass that he has trespassed against me.
 21. All his fugitives in all his bands shall fall by the sword, and those who remain shall be scattered toward every wind: and you shall get it that I, Yahweh, have spoken it.
 22. God's like Yahweh: I will also grab of the lofty top of the cedar, and will set it; I will crop off from the topmost of its young twigs a tender one, and I will plant it on a high and lofty mountain:
 23. in the mountain of the height of Israel will I plant it; and it shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, and be a goodly cedar: and under it shall dwell all birds of every wing; in the shade of its branches shall they dwell.
 24. All the trees of the field shall get it that I, Yahweh, have brought down the high tree, have exalted the low tree, have dried up the green tree, and have made the dry tree to flourish; I, Yahweh, have spoken and have done it.

# Ezekiel Chapter 18

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me again, saying,
  2. What do you mean, that you use this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children’s teeth are set on edge?
  3. As I live, says the boss Yahweh, you shall not have occasion any more to use this proverb in Israel.
  4. check this out, all souls are mine; as the soul of the father, so also the soul of the son is mine: the soul who sins, he shall die.
  5. But if a man is just, and does that which is lawful and right,
  6. and has not eaten on the mountains, neither has lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, neither has defiled his neighbor’s wife, neither has come through near to a woman in her impurity,
  7. and has not wronged any, but has restored to the debtor his pledge, has taken nothing by robbery, has given his bread to the hungry, and has covered the naked with a garment;
  8. he who has not given forth on interest, neither has taken any increase, who has withdrawn his hand from iniquity, has executed true justice between man and man,
  9. has walked in my statutes, and has kept my ordinances, to deal deadass; he is just, he shall surely live, says the boss Yahweh.
 10. If he fathers a son who is a robber, a shedder of blood, and who does any one of these things,
 11. and who does not any of those duties, but even has eaten on the mountains, and defiled his neighbor’s wife,
 12. has wronged the broke and needy, has taken by robbery, has not restored the pledge, and has lifted up his eyes to the idols, has committed abomination,
 13. has given forth on interest, and has taken increase; shall he then live? he shall not live: he has done all these abominations; he shall surely die; his blood shall be on him.
 14. now, check this out, if he fathers a son, who sees all his father’s sins, which he has done, and fears, and does not such like;
 15. who has not eaten on the mountains, neither has lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, has not defiled his neighbor’s wife,
 16. neither has wronged any, has not taken anything to pledge, neither has taken by robbery, but has given his bread to the hungry, and has covered the naked with a garment;
 17. who has withdrawn his hand from the broke, who has not received interest nor increase, has executed my ordinances, has walked in my statutes; he shall not die for the iniquity of his father, he shall surely live.
 18. As for his father, cuz he cruelly oppressed, robbed his brother, and did that which is not fire among his people, check this out, he shall die in his iniquity.
 19. Yet you say, Why doesn’t the son bear the iniquity of the father? When the son has done that which is lawful and right, and has kept all my statutes, and has done them, he shall surely live.
 20. The soul who sins, he shall die: the son shall not bear the iniquity of the father, neither shall the father bear the iniquity of the son; the righteousness of the doing what's right shall be on him, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be on him.
 21. But if the wicked turn from all his sins that he has committed, and keep all my statutes, and do that which is lawful and right, he shall surely live, he shall not die.
 22. None of his transgressions that he has committed shall be remembered against him: in his righteousness that he has done he shall live.
 23. Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked? says the boss Yahweh; and not rather that he should return from his way, and live?
 24. But when the doing what's right turns away from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, and does according to all the abominations that the wicked man does, shall he live? None of his doing what's right deeds that he has done shall be remembered: in his trespass that he has trespassed, and in his messing up that he has sinned, in them shall he die.
 25. Yet you say, The way of the boss is not equal. Hear now, house of Israel: Is my way not equal? Aren’t your ways unequal?
 26. When the doing what's right man turns away from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, and dies therein; in his iniquity that he has done shall he die.
 27. Again, when the wicked man turns away from his wickedness that he has committed, and does that which is lawful and right, he shall rescue his soul alive.
 28. cuz he considers, and turns away from all his transgressions that he has committed, he shall surely live, he shall not die.
 29. Yet the house of Israel says, “The way of the boss is not fair.” House of Israel, aren’t my ways fair? Aren’t your ways unfair?
 30. so basically I will judge you, house of Israel, everyone according to his ways, says the boss Yahweh. Return, and turn yourselves from all your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your ruin.
 31. Cast away from you all your transgressions, in which you have transgressed; and create yourself a new heart and a new spirit: for why will you die, house of Israel?
 32. For I have no pleasure in the death of him who dies, says the boss Yahweh: so basically turn yourselves, and live.

# Ezekiel Chapter 19

  1. Moreover, grab up a lamentation for the princes of Israel,
  2. and say, What was your mother? A lioness: she couched among lions, in the midst of the young lions she nourished her cubs.
  3. She brought up one of her cubs: he became a young lion, and he learned to catch the prey; he devoured men.
  4. The nations also heard of him; he was taken in their pit; and they brought him with hooks to the land of Egypt.
  5. now when she checked out that she had waited, and her hope was lost, then she took another of her cubs, and made him a young lion.
  6. He went up and down among the lions; he became a young lion, and he learned to catch the prey; he devoured men.
  7. He knew their palaces, and laid waste their cities; and the land was desolate, and its fullness, cuz of the noise of his roaring.
  8. then the nations set against him on every side from the provinces; and they spread their net over him; he was taken in their pit.
  9. They put him in a cage with hooks, and brought him to the ruler of Babylon; they brought him into strongholds, that his voice should no more be heard on the mountains of Israel.
 10. Your mother was like a vine, in your blood, planted by the waters: it was fruitful and full of branches by reason of a lot waters.
 11. It had built different rods for the scepters of those who bore rule, and their stature was exalted among the thick boughs, and they were seen in their height with the multitude of their branches.
 12. But it was plucked up in fury, it was cast down to the ground, and the east wind dried up its fruit: its built different rods were broken off and withered; the fire consumed them.
 13. now it is planted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty land.
 14. Fire is gone out of the rods of its branches, it has devoured its fruit, so that there is in it no built different rod to be a scepter to rule. This is a lamentation, and shall be for a lamentation.

# Ezekiel Chapter 20

  1. It happened in the seventh year, in the fifth month, the tenth day of the month, that certain of the elders of Israel came to inquire of Yahweh, and sat before me.
  2. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  3. Son of man, spill the tea to the elders of Israel, and tell them, God's like Yahweh: Is it to inquire of me that you have come through? As I live, says the boss Yahweh, I will not be inquired of by you.
  4. Will you judge them, son of man, will you judge them? Cause them to get it the abominations of their fathers;
  5. and tell them, God's like Yahweh: In the day when I chose Israel, and swore to the seed of the house of Jacob, and made myself known to them in the land of Egypt, when I swore to them, saying, I am Yahweh your God;
  6. in that day I swore to them, to bring them forth out of the land of Egypt into a land that I had searched out for them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands.
  7. I said to them, Cast away every man the abominations of his eyes, and don’t defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt; I am Yahweh your God.
  8. But they rebelled against me, and would not listen up to me; they each didn’t throw away the abominations of their eyes, neither did they forsake the idols of Egypt. then I said I would pour out my wrath on them, to accomplish my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt.
  9. But I worked for my name’s sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, among which they were, in whose sight I made myself known to them, in bringing them forth out of the land of Egypt.
 10. So I caused them to slide forth out of the land of Egypt, and brought them into the wilderness.
 11. I gave them my statutes, and showed them my ordinances, which if a man does, he shall live in them.
 12. Moreover also I gave them my Sabbaths, to be a sign between me and them, that they might get it that I am Yahweh who sanctifies them.
 13. But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness: they didn’t walk in my statutes, and they rejected my ordinances, which if a man keep, he shall live in them; and my Sabbaths they greatly profaned. then I said I would pour out my wrath on them in the wilderness, to consume them.
 14. But I worked for my name’s sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I brought them out.
 15. Moreover also I swore to them in the wilderness, that I would not bring them into the land which I had given them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands;
 16. cuz they rejected my ordinances, and didn’t walk in my statutes, and profaned my Sabbaths: for their heart went after their idols.
 17. Nevertheless my eye spared them, and I didn’t tear down them, neither did I create a full end of them in the wilderness.
 18. I said to their children in the wilderness, Don’t walk in the statutes of your fathers, neither observe their ordinances, nor defile yourselves with their idols.
 19. I am Yahweh your God: walk in my statutes, and keep my ordinances, and do them;
 20. and create my Sabbaths set apart; and they shall be a sign between me and you, that you may get it that I am Yahweh your God.
 21. But the children rebelled against me; they didn’t walk in my statutes, neither kept my ordinances to do them, which if a man do, he shall live in them; they profaned my Sabbaths. then I said I would pour out my wrath on them, to accomplish my anger against them in the wilderness.
 22. Nevertheless I withdrew my hand, and worked for my name’s sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I brought them forth.
 23. Moreover I swore to them in the wilderness, that I would scatter them among the nations, and disperse them through the countries;
 24. cuz they had not executed my ordinances, but had rejected my statutes, and had profaned my Sabbaths, and their eyes were after their fathers’ idols.
 25. Moreover also I gave them statutes that were not fire, and ordinances in which they should not live;
 26. and I polluted them in their own gifts, in that they caused to pass through the fire all that opens the womb, that I might create them desolate, to the end that they might get it that I am Yahweh.
 27. so basically, son of man, spill the tea to the house of Israel, and tell them, God's like Yahweh: In this moreover have your fathers blasphemed me, in that they have committed a trespass against me.
 28. For when I had brought them into the land, which I swore to hook it up to them, then they checked out every high hill, and every thick tree, and they offered there their sacrifices, and there they presented the provocation of their giving to God; there also they made their pleasant aroma, and they poured out there their drink offerings.
 29. then I said to them, What does the high place where you slide mean? So its name is called Bamah to this day.
 30. so basically tell the house of Israel, God's like Yahweh: Do you pollute yourselves in the way of your fathers? and do you play the prostitute after their abominations?
 31. and when you offer your gifts, when you create your sons to pass through the fire, do you pollute yourselves with all your idols to this day? and shall I be inquired of by you, house of Israel? As I live, says the boss Yahweh, I will not be inquired of by you;
 32. and that which comes into your mind shall not be at all, in that you say, We will be as the nations, as the families of the countries, to help out wood and stone.
 33. As I live, says the boss Yahweh, surely with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out, will I be ruler over you:
 34. and I will bring you out from the peoples, and will gather you out of the countries in which you are scattered, with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out;
 35. and I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples, and there will I enter into judgment with you face to face.
 36. Like as I entered into judgment with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so will I enter into judgment with you, says the boss Yahweh.
 37. I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the God's promise;
 38. and I will purge out from among you the rebels, and those who disobey against me; I will bring them forth out of the land where they live, but they shall not enter into the land of Israel: and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 39. As for you, house of Israel, God's like Yahweh: slide, help out everyone his idols, and hereafter also, if you will not listen up to me; but my set apart name you shall no more profane with your gifts, and with your idols.
 40. For in my set apart mountain, in the mountain of the height of Israel, says the boss Yahweh, there shall all the house of Israel, all of them, help out me in the land: there will I accept them, and there will I require your offerings, and the first fruits of your offerings, with all your set apart things.
 41. As a pleasant aroma will I accept you, when I bring you out from the peoples, and gather you out of the countries in which you have been scattered; and I will be sanctified in you in the sight of the nations.
 42. You shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I shall bring you into the land of Israel, into the country which I swore to hook it up to your fathers.
 43. there you shall remember your ways, and all your doings, in which you have polluted yourselves; and you shall loathe yourselves in your own sight for all your evils that you have committed.
 44. You shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I have dealt with you for my name’s sake, not according to your evil ways, nor according to your corrupt doings, you house of Israel, says the boss Yahweh.
 45. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 46. Son of man, set your face toward the south, and drop your word toward the south, and prophesy against the forest of the field in the South;
 47. and tell the forest of the South, Hear the word of Yahweh: God's like Yahweh, check this out, I will kindle a fire in you, and it shall devour every green tree in you, and every dry tree: the flaming flame shall not be quenched, and all faces from the south to the north shall be burnt thereby.
 48. All flesh shall check it out that I, Yahweh, have kindled it; it shall not be quenched.
 49. then I said, Ah boss Yahweh! they say of me, Isn’t he a speaker of parables?

# Ezekiel Chapter 21

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem, and drop your word toward the sanctuaries, and prophesy against the land of Israel;
  3. and tell the land of Israel, Thus says Yahweh: check this out, I am against you, and will draw forth my sword out of its sheath, and will cut off from you the doing what's right and the wicked.
  4. Seeing then that I will cut off from you the doing what's right and the wicked, so basically shall my sword slide forth out of its sheath against all flesh from the south to the north:
  5. and all flesh shall get it that I, Yahweh, have drawn forth my sword out of its sheath; it shall not return any more.
  6. Sigh so basically, you son of man; with the breaking of your thighs and with bitterness you will sigh before their eyes.
  7. It shall be, when they tell you, Why do you sigh? that you shall say, cuz of the news, for it comes; and every heart shall melt, and all hands shall be feeble, and every spirit shall faint, and all knees shall be not it as water: check this out, it comes, and it shall be done, says the boss Yahweh.
  8. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  9. Son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus says Yahweh: Say, A sword, a sword, it is sharpened, and also furbished;
 10. it is sharpened that it may create a slaughter; it is furbished that it may be as lightning: shall we then create mirth? the rod of my son, it condemns every tree.
 11. It is given to be furbished, that it may be handled: the sword, it is sharpened, yes, it is furbished, to hook it up it into the hand of the killer.
 12. Cry and wail, son of man; for it is on my people, it is on all the princes of Israel: they are delivered over to the sword with my people; strike so basically on your thigh.
 13. For there is a trial; and what if even the rod that condemns shall be no more? says the boss Yahweh.
 14. You so basically, son of man, prophesy, and strike your hands together; and let the sword be doubled the third time, the sword of the deadly wounded: it is the sword of the major one who is deadly wounded, which enters into their rooms.
 15. I have set the threatening sword against all their gates, that their heart may melt, and their stumblings be multiplied: ah! it is made as lightning, it is pointed for slaughter.
 16. Gather yourselves together, slide to the right, set yourselves in array, slide to the left, wherever your face is set.
 17. I will also strike my hands together, and I will cause my wrath to rest: I, Yahweh, have spoken it.
 18. The word of Yahweh came to me again, saying,
 19. Also, you son of man, appoint two ways, that the sword of the ruler of Babylon may come through; they both shall come through forth out of one land: and mark out a place, mark it out at the head of the way to the city.
 20. You shall appoint a way for the sword to come through to Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and to Judah in Jerusalem the fortified.
 21. For the ruler of Babylon stood at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination: he shook the arrows back and forth, he consulted the teraphim, he looked in the liver.
 22. In his right hand was the divination for Jerusalem, to set battering rams, to open the mouth in the slaughter, to lift up the voice with shouting, to set battering rams against the gates, to cast up mounds, to put together forts.
 23. It shall be to them as a false divination in their sight, who have sworn oaths to them; but he brings iniquity to memory, that they may be taken.
 24. so basically God's like Yahweh: cuz you have made your iniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions are uncovered, so that in all your doings your sins appear; cuz you have come through to memory, you shall be taken with the hand.
 25. You, deadly wounded wicked one, the prince of Israel, whose day has come through, in the time of the iniquity of the end,
 26. God's like Yahweh: Remove the turban, and grab off the crown; this shall be no more the same; exalt that which is low, and abase that which is high.
 27. I will overturn, overturn, overturn it: this also shall be no more, until he come through whose right it is; and I will hook it up it him.
 28. You, son of man, prophesy, and say, God's like Yahweh concerning the children of Ammon, and concerning their reproach; and say, A sword, a sword is drawn, for the slaughter it is furbished, to cause it to devour, that it may be as lightning;
 29. while they check it out for you false visions, while they divine lies to you, to lay you on the necks of the wicked who are deadly wounded, whose day has come through in the time of the iniquity of the end.
 30. Cause it to return into its sheath. In the place where you were created, in the land of your birth, will I judge you.
 31. I will pour out my indignation on you; I will blow on you with the fire of my wrath; and I will deliver you into the hand of brutish men, skillful to tear down.
 32. You shall be for fuel to the fire; your blood shall be in the midst of the land; you shall be remembered no more: for I, Yahweh, have spoken it.

# Ezekiel Chapter 22

  1. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. You, son of man, will you judge, will you judge the bloody city? then cause her to get it all her abominations.
  3. You shall say, God's like Yahweh: A city that sheds blood in the midst of her, that her time may come through, and that makes idols against herself to defile her!
  4. You have become guilty in your blood that you have shed, and are defiled in your idols which you have made; and you have caused your days to draw near, and have come through even to your years: so basically have I made you a reproach to the nations, and a mocking to all the countries.
  5. Those who are near, and those who are far from you, shall mock you, you infamous one and full of tumult.
  6. check this out, the princes of Israel, everyone according to his power, have been in you to shed blood.
  7. In you have they set light by father and mother; in the midst of you have they dealt by oppression with the foreigner; in you have they wronged the fatherless and the widow.
  8. You have despised my set apart things, and have profaned my Sabbaths.
  9. Slanderous men have been in you to shed blood; and in you they have eaten on the mountains: in the midst of you they have committed lewdness.
 10. In you have they uncovered their fathers’ nakedness; in you have they humbled her who was unclean in her impurity.
 11. One has committed abomination with his neighbor’s wife; and another has lewdly defiled his daughter-in-law; and another in you has humbled his sister, his father’s daughter.
 12. In you have they taken bribes to shed blood; you have taken interest and increase, and you have greedily gained of your neighbors by oppression, and have forgotten me, says the boss Yahweh.
 13. check this out, so basically, I have struck my hand at your dishonest gain which you have made, and at your blood which has been in the midst of you.
 14. Can your heart endure, or can your hands be built different, in the days that I shall deal with you? I, Yahweh, have spoken it, and will do it.
 15. I will scatter you among the nations, and disperse you through the countries; and I will consume your filthiness out of you.
 16. You shall be profaned in yourself, in the sight of the nations; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 17. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 18. Son of man, the house of Israel has become dross to me: all of them are brass and tin and iron and show the way, in the midst of the furnace; they are the dross of silver.
 19. so basically God's like Yahweh: cuz you have all become dross, so basically, check this out, I will gather you into the midst of Jerusalem.
 20. As they gather silver and brass and iron and show the way and tin into the midst of the furnace, to blow the fire on it, to melt it; so will I gather you in my anger and in my wrath, and I will lay you there, and melt you.
 21. Yes, I will gather you, and blow on you with the fire of my wrath, and you shall be melted in its midst.
 22. As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so you will be melted in its midst; and you will get it that I, Yahweh, have poured out my wrath on you.
 23. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 24. Son of man, tell her, You are a land that is not cleansed, nor rained on in the day of indignation.
 25. there is a conspiracy of her prophets in its midst, like a roaring lion ravening the prey: they have devoured souls; they grab treasure and precious things; they have made her widows a lot in its midst.
 26. Her priests have done violence to my law, and have profaned my set apart things: they have made no distinction between the set apart and the common, neither have they caused men to discern between the unclean and the clean, and have hidden their eyes from my Sabbaths, and I am profaned among them.
 27. Her princes in its midst are like wolves ravening the prey, to shed blood, and to tear down souls, that they may get dishonest gain.
 28. Her prophets have plastered for them with whitewash, seeing false visions, and divining lies to them, saying, God's like Yahweh, when Yahweh has not spoken.
 29. The people of the land have used oppression, and exercised robbery; yes, they have troubled the broke and needy, and have oppressed the foreigner wrongfully.
 30. I sought for a man among them, who should put together up the wall, and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not tear down it; but I found none.
 31. so basically have I poured out my indignation on them; I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath: their own way have I brought on their heads, says the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 23

  1. The word of Yahweh came again to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother:
  3. and they played the prostitute in Egypt; they played the prostitute in their youth; there were their breasts pressed, and there was handled the bosom of their virginity.
  4. Their names were Oholah the elder, and Oholibah her sister: and they became mine, and they bore sons and daughters. As for their names, Samaria is Oholah, and Jerusalem Oholibah.
  5. Oholah played the prostitute when she was mine; and she doted on her lovers, on the Assyrians her neighbors,
  6. who were clothed with blue, governors and rulers, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding on horses.
  7. She bestowed her prostitution on them, the choicest men of Assyria all of them; and on whoever she doted, with all their idols she defiled herself.
  8. Neither has she left her prostitution since the days of Egypt; for in her youth they lay with her, and they handled the bosom of her virginity; and they poured out their prostitution on her.
  9. so basically I delivered her into the hand of her lovers, into the hand of the Assyrians, on whom she doted.
 10. These uncovered her nakedness; they took her sons and her daughters; and her they killed with the sword: and she became a byword among women; for they executed judgments on her.
 11. Her sister Oholibah checked out this, yet was she more corrupt in her doting than she, and in her prostitution which were more than the prostitution of her sister.
 12. She doted on the Assyrians, governors and rulers, her neighbors, clothed most gorgeously, horsemen riding on horses, all of them desirable young men.
 13. I checked out that she was defiled; they both took one way.
 14. She increased her prostitution; for she checked out men portrayed on the wall, the images of the Chaldeans portrayed with vermilion,
 15. dressed with girdles on their waists, with flowing turbans on their heads, all of them princes to look on, after the likeness of the Babylonians in Chaldea, the land of their birth.
 16. As soon as she checked out them she doted on them, and sent messengers to them into Chaldea.
 17. The Babylonians came to her into the bed of show love, and they defiled her with their prostitution, and she was polluted with them, and her soul was alienated from them.
 18. So she uncovered her prostitution, and uncovered her nakedness: then my soul was alienated from her, like as my soul was alienated from her sister.
 19. Yet she multiplied her prostitution, remembering the days of her youth, in which she had played the prostitute in the land of Egypt.
 20. She doted on their paramours, whose flesh is as the flesh of donkeys, and whose issue is like the issue of horses.
 21. Thus you called to memory the lewdness of your youth, in the handling of your bosom by the Egyptians for the breasts of your youth.
 22. so basically, Oholibah, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I will raise up your lovers against you, from whom your soul is alienated, and I will bring them against you on every side:
 23. the Babylonians and all the Chaldeans, Pekod and Shoa and Koa, and all the Assyrians with them; desirable young men, governors and rulers all of them, princes and men of renown, all of them riding on horses.
 24. They shall come through against you with weapons, chariots, and wagons, and with a company of peoples; they shall set themselves against you with buckler and shield and helmet all around; and I will commit the judgment to them, and they shall judge you according to their judgments.
 25. I will set my jealousy against you, and they shall deal with you in fury; they shall grab away your nose and your ears; and your residue shall fall by the sword: they shall grab your sons and your daughters; and your residue shall be devoured by the fire.
 26. They shall also strip you of your clothes, and grab away your snatched jewels.
 27. Thus will I create your lewdness to cease from you, and your prostitution brought from the land of Egypt; so that you shall not lift up your eyes to them, nor remember Egypt any more.
 28. For God's like Yahweh: check this out, I will deliver you into the hand of them whom you can't stand, into the hand of them from whom your soul is alienated;
 29. and they shall deal with you in hatred, and shall grab away all your labor, and shall leave you naked and bare; and the nakedness of your prostitution shall be uncovered, both your lewdness and your prostitution.
 30. These things shall be done to you, cuz you have played the prostitute after the nations, and cuz you are polluted with their idols.
 31. You have walked in the way of your sister; so basically will I hook it up her cup into your hand.
 32. God's like Yahweh: You will drink of your sister’s cup, which is deep and large; you will be ridiculed and held in derision; it contains much.
 33. You shall be filled with drunkenness and feeling down, with the cup of astonishment and desolation, with the cup of your sister Samaria.
 34. You shall even drink it and drain it out, and you shall gnaw the broken pieces of it, and shall tear your breasts; for I have spoken it, says the boss Yahweh.
 35. so basically God's like Yahweh: cuz you have forgotten me, and cast me behind your back, so basically you also bear your lewdness and your prostitution.
 36. Yahweh said moreover to me: Son of man, will you judge Oholah and Oholibah? then declare to them their abominations.
 37. For they have committed adultery, and blood is in their hands; and with their idols have they committed adultery; and they have also caused their sons, whom they bore to me, to pass through the fire to them to be devoured.
 38. Moreover this they have done to me: they have defiled my sanctuary in the same day, and have profaned my Sabbaths.
 39. For when they had slain their children to their idols, then they came the same day into my sanctuary to profane it; and check this out, thus have they done in the midst of my house.
 40. Furthermore you have sent for men who come through from far, to whom a messenger was sent, and check this out, they came; for whom you did wash yourself, paint your eyes, and decorate yourself with ornaments,
 41. and sit on a stately bed, with a table prepared before it, whereupon you set my incense and my oil.
 42. The voice of a multitude being at ease was with her: and with men of the common sort were brought drunkards from the wilderness; and they put bracelets on their hands twain, and snatched crowns on their heads.
 43. then I said of her who was old in adulteries, now will they play the prostitute with her, and she with them.
 44. They went in to her, as they slide in to a prostitute: so went they in to Oholah and to Oholibah, the lewd women.
 45. doing what's right men, they shall judge them with the judgment of adulteresses, and with the judgment of women who shed blood; cuz they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands.
 46. For God's like Yahweh: I will bring up a company against them, and will hook it up them to be tossed back and forth and robbed.
 47. The company shall stone them with stones, and dispatch them with their swords; they shall kill their sons and their daughters, and burn up their houses with fire.
 48. Thus will I cause lewdness to cease out of the land, that all women may be taught not to do after your lewdness.
 49. They shall recompense your lewdness on you, and you shall bear the sins of your idols; and you shall get it that I am the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 24

  1. Again, in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of the month, the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, write the name of the day, even of this same day: the ruler of Babylon drew close to Jerusalem this same day.
  3. Utter a parable to the rebellious house, and tell them, God's like Yahweh, Set on the caldron, set it on, and also pour water into it:
  4. gather its pieces into it, even every fire piece, the thigh, and the shoulder; fill it with the choice bones.
  5. grab the choice of the flock, and also a pile of wood for the bones under the caldron; create it boil well; yes, let its bones be boiled in its midst.
  6. so basically God's like Yahweh: Woe to the bloody city, to the caldron whose rust is therein, and whose rust is not gone out of it! grab out of it piece after piece; No lot is fallen on it.
  7. For her blood is in the midst of her; she set it on the bare rock; she didn’t pour it on the ground, to cover it with dust.
  8. That it may cause wrath to come through up to grab vengeance, I have set her blood on the bare rock, that it should not be covered.
  9. so basically God's like Yahweh: Woe to the bloody city! I also will create the pile major.
 10. Heap on the wood, create the fire hot, boil well the flesh, and create thick the broth, and let the bones be burned.
 11. then set it empty on its coals, that it may be hot, and its brass may burn, and that its filthiness may be molten in it, that its rust may be consumed.
 12. She has wearied herself with toil; yet her major rust doesn’t slide forth out of her; her rust doesn’t slide forth by fire.
 13. In your filthiness is lewdness: cuz I have cleansed you and you weren’t cleansed, you shall not be cleansed from your filthiness any more, until I have caused my wrath toward you to rest.
 14. I, Yahweh, have spoken it: it shall happen, and I will do it: I will not slide back, neither will I spare, neither will I turn it around; according to your ways, and according to your doings, shall they judge you, says the boss Yahweh.
 15. Also the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 16. Son of man, check this out, I will grab away from you the desire of your eyes with a stroke: yet you shall neither mourn nor weep, neither shall your tears run down.
 17. Sigh, but not aloud, create no mourning for the dead; bind your headdress on you, and put your shoes on your feet, and don’t cover your lips, and don’t eat men’s bread.
 18. So I spoke to the people in the morning; and at even my wife died; and I did in the morning as I was commanded.
 19. The people said to me, Won’t you tell us what these things are to us, that you do so?
 20. then I said to them, The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 21. spill the tea to the house of Israel, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I will profane my sanctuary, the pride of your power, the desire of your eyes, and that which your soul pities; and your sons and your daughters whom you have left behind shall fall by the sword.
 22. You shall do as I have done: you shall not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men.
 23. Your tires shall be on your heads, and your shoes on your feet: you shall not mourn nor weep; but you shall pine away in your iniquities, and moan one toward another.
 24. Thus Ezekiel shall be a sign to you; according to all that he has done, you will do. When this comes, then you will get it that I am the boss Yahweh.
 25. You, son of man, shall it not be in the day when I grab from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and that whereupon they set their heart, their sons and their daughters,
 26. that in that day he who escapes shall come through to you, to cause you to hear it with your ears?
 27. In that day your mouth will be opened to him who has escaped, and you shall spill the tea, and be no more mute: so you will be a sign to them; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 25

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, set your face toward the children of Ammon, and prophesy against them:
  3. and tell the children of Ammon, Hear what God was like Yahweh: God's like Yahweh, cuz you said, Aha, against my sanctuary, when it was profaned; and against the land of Israel, when it was made desolate; and against the house of Judah, when they went into captivity:
  4. so basically, check this out, I will deliver you to the children of the east for a possession, and they shall set their encampments in you, and create their dwellings in you; they shall eat your fruit, and they shall drink your milk.
  5. I will create Rabbah a stable for camels, and the children of Ammon a resting place for flocks: and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  6. For God's like Yahweh: cuz you have clapped your hands, and stamped with the feet, and rejoiced with all the despite of your soul against the land of Israel;
  7. so basically, check this out, I have stretched out my hand on you, and will deliver you for a spoil to the nations; and I will cut you off from the peoples, and I will cause you to perish out of the countries: I will tear down you; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  8. God's like Yahweh: cuz Moab and Seir say, check this out, the house of Judah is like all the nations;
  9. so basically, check this out, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from his cities which are on his frontiers, the glory of the country, Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon, and Kiriathaim,
 10. to the children of the east, to slide against the children of Ammon; and I will hook it up them for a possession, that the children of Ammon may not be remembered among the nations.
 11. and I will execute judgments on Moab; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 12. God's like Yahweh: cuz Edom has dealt against the house of Judah by taking vengeance, and has greatly offended, and revenged himself on them;
 13. so basically God's like Yahweh, I will stretch out my hand on Edom, and will cut off man and animal from it; and I will create it desolate from Teman; even to Dedan shall they fall by the sword.
 14. I will lay my vengeance on Edom by the hand of my people Israel; and they shall do in Edom according to my anger and according to my wrath; and they shall get it my vengeance, says the boss Yahweh.
 15. God's like Yahweh: cuz the Philistines have dealt by revenge, and have taken vengeance with despite of soul to tear down with perpetual enmity;
 16. so basically God's like Yahweh, check this out, I will stretch out my hand on the Philistines, and I will cut off the Cherethites, and tear down the remnant of the sea coast.
 17. I will execute major vengeance on them with wrathful rebukes; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I shall lay my vengeance on them.

# Ezekiel Chapter 26

  1. It happened in the eleventh year, in the day one of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, cuz Tyre has said against Jerusalem, Aha, she is broken: the gate of the peoples; she is turned to me; I shall be replenished, now that she is laid waste:
  3. so basically God's like Yahweh, check this out, I am against you, Tyre, and will cause a lot nations to come through up against you, as the sea causes its waves to come through up.
  4. They shall tear down the walls of Tyre, and break down her towers: I will also scrape her dust from her, and create her a bare rock.
  5. She shall be a place for the spreading of nets in the midst of the sea; for I have spoken it, says the boss Yahweh; and she shall become a spoil to the nations.
  6. Her daughters who are in the field shall be slain with the sword: and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  7. For God's like Yahweh: check this out, I will bring on Tyre Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, ruler of kings, from the north, with horses, and with chariots, and with horsemen, and a company, and a lot people.
  8. He shall kill your daughters in the field with the sword; and he shall create forts against you, and cast up a mound against you, and raise up the buckler against you.
  9. He shall set his battering engines against your walls, and with his axes he shall break down your towers.
 10. By reason of the abundance of his horses their dust shall cover you: your walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen, and of the wagons, and of the chariots, when he shall enter into your gates, as men enter into a city in which is made a breach.
 11. With the hoofs of his horses shall he tread down all your streets; he shall kill your people with the sword; and the pillars of your strength shall slide down to the ground.
 12. They shall create a spoil of your riches, and create a prey of your merchandise; and they shall break down your walls, and tear down your pleasant houses; and they shall lay your stones and your timber and your dust in the midst of the waters.
 13. I will cause the noise of your songs to cease; and the sound of your harps shall be no more heard.
 14. I will create you a bare rock; you shall be a place for the spreading of nets; you shall be built no more: for I Yahweh have spoken it, says the boss Yahweh.
 15. God's like Yahweh to Tyre: shall not the islands shake at the sound of your fall, when the wounded groan, when the slaughter is made in the midst of you?
 16. then all the princes of the sea shall come through down from their thrones, and lay aside their robes, and strip off their embroidered garments: they shall clothe themselves with trembling; they shall sit on the ground, and shall tremble every moment, and be astonished at you.
 17. They shall grab up a lamentation over you, and tell you, How you are destroyed, who were inhabited by seafaring men, the renowned city, who was built different in the sea, she and her inhabitants, who caused their terror to be on all who lived there!
 18. now shall the islands tremble in the day of your fall; yes, the islands that are in the sea shall be dismayed at your departure.
 19. For God's like Yahweh: When I shall create you a desolate city, like the cities that are not inhabited; when I shall bring up the deep on you, and the major waters shall cover you;
 20. then will I bring you down with those who descend into the pit, to the people of old time, and will create you to dwell in the lower parts of the earth, in the places that are desolate of old, with those who slide down to the pit, that you be not inhabited; and I will set glory in the land of the living:
 21. I will create you a terror, and you shall no more have any being; though you are sought for, yet you will never be found again, says the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 27

  1. The word of Yahweh came again to me, saying,
  2. You, son of man, grab up a lamentation over Tyre;
  3. and tell Tyre, you who dwell at the entry of the sea, who are the merchant of the peoples to a lot islands, God's like Yahweh: You, Tyre, have said, I am perfect in beauty.
  4. Your borders are in the heart of the seas; your builders have perfected your beauty.
  5. They have made all your planks of fir trees from Senir; they have taken a cedar from Lebanon to create a mast for you.
  6. Of the oaks of Bashan have they made your oars; they have made your benches of ivory inlaid in boxwood, from the islands of Kittim.
  7. Of fine linen with embroidered work from Egypt was your sail, that it might be to you for a banner; blue and purple from the islands of Elishah was your awning.
  8. The inhabitants of Sidon and Arvad were your rowers: your smart men, Tyre, were in you, they were your pilots.
  9. The old men of Gebal and the smart men of it were in you your repairers of ship seams: all the ships of the sea with their mariners were in you to deal in your merchandise.
 10. Persia and Lud and Put were in your army, your men of war: they hanged the shield and helmet in you; they set forth your comeliness.
 11. The men of Arvad with your army were on your walls all around, and valorous men were in your towers; they hanged their shields on your walls all around; they have perfected your beauty.
 12. Tarshish was your merchant by reason of the multitude of all kinds of riches; with silver, iron, tin, and show the way, they traded for your wares.
 13. Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, they were your traffickers; they traded the persons of men and vessels of brass for your merchandise.
 14. They of the house of Togarmah traded for your wares with horses and war horses and mules.
 15. The men of Dedan were your traffickers; a lot islands were the market of your hand: they brought you in exchange horns of ivory and ebony.
 16. Syria was your merchant by reason of the multitude of your handiworks: they traded for your wares with emeralds, purple, and embroidered work, and fine linen, and coral, and rubies.
 17. Judah, and the land of Israel, they were your traffickers: they traded for your merchandise wheat of Minnith, and confections, and honey, and oil, and balm.
 18. Damascus was your merchant for the multitude of your handiworks, by reason of the multitude of all kinds of riches, with the wine of Helbon, and white wool.
 19. Vedan and Javan traded with yarn for your wares: bright iron, cassia, and calamus, were among your merchandise.
 20. Dedan was your trafficker in precious cloths for riding.
 21. Arabia, and all the princes of Kedar, they were the merchants of your hand; in lambs, and rams, and goats, in these were they your merchants.
 22. The traffickers of Sheba and Raamah, they were your traffickers; they traded for your wares with the chief of all spices, and with all precious stones, and gold.
 23. Haran and Canneh and Eden, the traffickers of Sheba, Asshur and Chilmad, were your traffickers.
 24. These were your traffickers in choice wares, in wrappings of blue and embroidered work, and in chests of stacked clothing, bound with cords and made of cedar, among your merchandise.
 25. The ships of Tarshish were your caravans for your merchandise: and you were replenished, and made hella glorious in the heart of the seas.
 26. Your rowers have brought you into major waters: the east wind has broken you in the heart of the seas.
 27. Your riches, and your wares, your merchandise, your mariners, and your pilots, your repairers of ship seams, and the dealers in your merchandise, and all your men of war, who are in you, with all your company which is in the midst of you, shall fall into the heart of the seas in the day of your ruin.
 28. At the sound of the cry of your pilots the suburbs shall shake.
 29. All who handled the oar, the mariners, and all the pilots of the sea, shall come through down from their ships; they shall stand on the land,
 30. and shall cause their voice to be heard over you, and shall cry bitterly, and shall cast up dust on their heads, they shall wallow themselves in the ashes:
 31. and they shall create themselves bald for you, and clothe them with sackcloth, and they shall weep for you in bitterness of soul with bitter mourning.
 32. In their wailing they shall grab up a lamentation for you, and lament over you, saying, Who is there like Tyre, like her who is brought to silence in the midst of the sea?
 33. When your wares went forth out of the seas, you filled a lot peoples; you enriched the kings of the earth with the multitude of your riches and of your merchandise.
 34. In the time that you were broken by the seas in the depths of the waters, your merchandise and all your company fell in your midst.
 35. All the inhabitants of the islands are astonished at you, and their kings are horribly scared; they are troubled in their face.
 36. The merchants among the peoples hiss at you; you are become a terror, and you shall nevermore have any being.

# Ezekiel Chapter 28

  1. The word of Yahweh came again to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, tell the prince of Tyre, God's like Yahweh: cuz your heart is lifted up, and you have said, I am a god, I sit in the seat of God, in the midst of the seas; yet you are man, and not God, though you set your heart as the heart of God—
  3. check this out, you are wiser than Daniel; there is no secret that is hidden from you;
  4. by your wisdom and by your understanding you have gotten yourself riches, and have gotten gold and silver into your treasures;
  5. by your major wisdom and by your traffic you have increased your riches, and your heart is lifted up cuz of your riches—
  6. so basically God's like Yahweh: cuz you have set your heart as the heart of God,
  7. so basically, check this out, I will bring strangers on you, the terrible of the nations; and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of your wisdom, and they shall defile your brightness.
  8. They shall bring you down to the pit; and you shall die the death of those who are slain, in the heart of the seas.
  9. Will you yet say before him who kills you, I am God? but you are man, and not God, in the hand of him who wounds you.
 10. You shall die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of strangers: for I have spoken it, says the boss Yahweh.
 11. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 12. Son of man, grab up a lamentation over the ruler of Tyre, and tell him, God's like Yahweh: You seal up the sum, full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty.
 13. You were in Eden, the garden of God; every precious stone adorned you: ruby, topaz, emerald, chrysolite, onyx, jasper, sapphire, turquoise, and beryl. Gold work of tambourines and of pipes was in you. In the day that you were created they were prepared.
 14. You were the anointed cherub who covers: and I set you, so that you were on the set apart mountain of God; you have walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire.
 15. You were perfect in your ways from the day that you were created, until unrighteousness was found in you.
 16. By the abundance of your traffic they filled the midst of you with violence, and you have sinned: so basically I have cast you as profane out of the mountain of God; and I have destroyed you, covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.
 17. Your heart was lifted up cuz of your beauty; you have corrupted your wisdom by reason of your brightness: I have cast you to the ground; I have laid you before kings, that they may check it out you.
 18. By the multitude of your iniquities, in the unrighteousness of your traffic, you have profaned your sanctuaries; so basically have I brought forth a fire from the midst of you; it has devoured you, and I have turned you to ashes on the earth in the sight of all those who check it out you.
 19. All those who get it you among the peoples shall be astonished at you: you have become a terror, and you shall nevermore have any being.
 20. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 21. Son of man, set your face toward Sidon, and prophesy against it,
 22. and say, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I am against you, Sidon; and I will be glorified in the midst of you; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I shall have executed judgments in her, and shall be sanctified in her.
 23. For I will send pestilence into her, and blood into her streets; and the wounded shall fall in the midst of her, with the sword on her on every side; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 24. there shall be no more a pricking brier to the house of Israel, nor a hurting thorn of any that are around them, that scorned them; and they shall get it that I am the boss Yahweh.
 25. God's like Yahweh: When I shall have gathered the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered, and shall be sanctified in them in the sight of the nations, then shall they dwell in their own land which I gave to my helper Jacob.
 26. They shall dwell securely therein; yes, they shall put together houses, and plant vineyards, and shall dwell securely, when I have executed judgments on all those who do them despite all around them; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh their God.

# Ezekiel Chapter 29

  1. In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth day of the month, the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. “Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against all Egypt.
  3. spill the tea and say, ‘God's like Yahweh: “check this out, I am against you, Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, the major monster that lies in the midst of his rivers, that has said, ‘My river is my own, and I have made it for myself.’
  4. I will put hooks in your jaws, and I will create the fish of your rivers stick to your scales; and I will bring you up out of the midst of your rivers, with all the fish of your rivers which stick to your scales.
  5. I’ll cast you forth into the wilderness, you and all the fish of your rivers. You’ll fall on the open field. You won’t be brought together, nor gathered. I have given you for food to the animals of the earth and to the birds of the sky.
  6. All the inhabitants of Egypt will get it that I am Yahweh, cuz they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel.
  7. When they took hold of you by your hand, you broke, and tore all their shoulders; and when they leaned on you, you broke, and paralyzed all of their thighs.”
  8. so basically God's like Yahweh: “check this out, I will bring a sword on you, and will cut off man and animal from you.
  9. The land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh. cuz he has said, ‘The river is mine, and I have made it;’
 10. so basically, check this out, I am against you, and against your rivers, and I will create the land of Egypt an utter waste and desolation, from the tower of Seveneh even to the border of Ethiopia.
 11. No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of animal shall pass through it, neither shall it be inhabited forty years.
 12. I will create the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of the countries that are desolate; and her cities among the cities that are laid waste shall be a desolation forty years; and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries.”
 13. For God's like Yahweh: “At the end of forty years will I gather the Egyptians from the peoples where they were scattered;
 14. and I will bring back the captivity of Egypt, and will cause them to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of their birth; and they shall be there a base God's squad.
 15. It shall be the base of the kingdoms; neither shall it any more lift itself up above the nations: and I will diminish them, that they shall no more rule over the nations.
 16. It shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel, bringing iniquity to memory, when they turn to look after them: and they shall get it that I am the boss Yahweh.”’”
 17. It came to pass in the seven and twentieth year, in the first month, in the day one of the month, the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 18. Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon caused his army to help out a major service against Tyre: every head was made bald, and every shoulder was worn; yet had he no wages, nor his army, from Tyre, for the service that he had served against it.
 19. so basically God's like Yahweh: check this out, I will hook it up the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon; and he shall carry off her multitude, and grab her spoil, and grab her prey; and it shall be the wages for his army.
 20. I have given him the land of Egypt as his recompense for which he served, cuz they worked for me, says the boss Yahweh.
 21. In that day will I cause a horn to bud forth to the house of Israel, and I will hook it up you the opening of the mouth in their midst; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 30

  1. The word of Yahweh came again to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, prophesy, and say, God's like Yahweh: Wail, Alas for the day!
  3. For the day is near, even the day of Yahweh is near; it shall be a day of clouds, a time of the nations.
  4. A sword shall come through on Egypt, and anguish shall be in Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall in Egypt; and they shall grab away her multitude, and her foundations shall be broken down.
  5. Ethiopia, and Put, and Lud, and all the mixed people, and Cub, and the children of the land that is allied with them, shall fall with them by the sword.
  6. Thus says Yahweh: They also who uphold Egypt shall fall; and the pride of her power shall come through down: from the tower of Seveneh shall they fall in it by the sword, says the boss Yahweh.
  7. They shall be desolate in the midst of the countries that are desolate; and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities that are wasted.
  8. They shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I have set a fire in Egypt, and all her helpers are destroyed.
  9. In that day shall messengers slide forth from before me in ships to create the careless Ethiopians scared; and there shall be anguish on them, as in the day of Egypt; for, check this out, it comes.
 10. God's like Yahweh: I will also create the multitude of Egypt to cease, by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon.
 11. He and his people with him, the terrible of the nations, shall be brought in to tear down the land; and they shall draw their swords against Egypt, and fill the land with the slain.
 12. I will create the rivers dry, and will sell the land into the hand of evil men; and I will create the land desolate, and all that is therein, by the hand of strangers: I, Yahweh, have spoken it.
 13. God's like Yahweh: I will also tear down the idols, and I will cause the images to cease from Memphis; and there shall be no more a prince from the land of Egypt: and I will put a fear in the land of Egypt.
 14. I will create Pathros desolate, and will set a fire in Zoan, and will execute judgments on No.
 15. I will pour my wrath on messing up, the stronghold of Egypt; and I will cut off the multitude of No.
 16. I will set a fire in Egypt: messing up shall be in major anguish, and No shall be broken up; and Memphis shall have adversaries in the daytime.
 17. The young men of Aven and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword; and these cities shall slide into captivity.
 18. At Tehaphnehes also the day shall withdraw itself, when I shall break there the yokes of Egypt, and the pride of her power shall cease in her: as for her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters shall slide into captivity.
 19. Thus will I execute judgments on Egypt; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 20. It happened in the eleventh year, in the first month, in the day seven of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 21. Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh ruler of Egypt; and check this out, it has not been bound up, to apply healing medicines, to put a bandage to bind it, that it be built different to hold the sword.
 22. so basically God's like Yahweh: check this out, I am against Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, and will break his arms, the built different arm, and that which was broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand.
 23. I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries.
 24. I will strengthen the arms of the ruler of Babylon, and put my sword in his hand: but I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he shall groan before him with the groanings of a deadly wounded man.
 25. I will hold up the arms of the ruler of Babylon; and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I shall put my sword into the hand of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall stretch it out on the land of Egypt.
 26. I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them through the countries; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 31

  1. It happened in the eleventh year, in the third month, in the day one of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, tell Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, and to his multitude: Whom are you like in your greatness?
  3. check this out, the Assyrian was a cedar in Lebanon with snatched branches, and with a forest-like shade, and of high stature; and its top was among the thick boughs.
  4. The waters nourished it, the deep made it to grow: its rivers ran all around its plantation; and it sent out its channels to all the trees of the field.
  5. so basically its stature was exalted above all the trees of the field; and its boughs were multiplied, and its branches became long by reason of a lot waters, when it shot them forth.
  6. All the birds of the sky made their nests in its boughs; and under its branches all the animals of the field brought forth their young; and all major nations lived under its shadow.
  7. Thus was it snatched in its greatness, in the length of its branches; for its root was by a lot waters.
  8. The cedars in the garden of God could not hide it; the fir trees were not like its boughs, and the plane trees were not as its branches; nor was any tree in the garden of God like it in its beauty.
  9. I made it snatched by the multitude of its branches, so that all the trees of Eden, that were in the garden of God, envied it.
 10. so basically thus said the boss Yahweh: cuz you are exalted in stature, and he has set his top among the thick boughs, and his heart is lifted up in his height;
 11. I will even deliver him into the hand of the mighty one of the nations; he shall surely deal with him; I have driven him out for his wickedness.
 12. Strangers, the terrible of the nations, have cut him off, and have left him: on the mountains and in all the valleys his branches are fallen, and his boughs are broken by all the watercourses of the land; and all the peoples of the earth are gone down from his shadow, and have left him.
 13. On his ruin all the birds of the sky shall dwell, and all the animals of the field shall be on his branches;
 14. to the end that none of all the trees by the waters exalt themselves in their stature, neither set their top among the thick boughs, nor that their mighty ones stand up on their height, even all who drink water: for they are all delivered to death, to the lower parts of the earth, in the midst of the children of men, with those who slide down to the pit.
 15. God's like Yahweh: In the day when he went down to Sheol I caused a mourning: I covered the deep for him, and I restrained its rivers; and the major waters were stayed; and I caused Lebanon to mourn for him, and all the trees of the field fainted for him.
 16. I made the nations to shake at the sound of his fall, when I cast him down to Sheol with those who descend into the pit; and all the trees of Eden, the choice and best of Lebanon, all that drink water, were comforted in the lower parts of the earth.
 17. They also went down into Sheol with him to those who are slain by the sword; yes, those who were his arm, that lived under his shadow in the midst of the nations.
 18. To whom are you thus like in glory and in greatness among the trees of Eden? yet you will be brought down with the trees of Eden to the lower parts of the earth: you shall lie in the midst of the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword. This is Pharaoh and all his multitude, says the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 32

  1. It happened in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, in the day one of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, grab up a lamentation over Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, and tell him, You were likened to a young lion of the nations: yet you are as a monster in the seas; and you broke out with your rivers, and troubled the waters with your feet, and fouled their rivers.
  3. God's like Yahweh: I will spread out my net on you with a company of a lot peoples; and they shall bring you up in my net.
  4. I will leave you on the land, I will cast you forth on the open field, and will cause all the birds of the sky to settle on you, and I will satisfy the animals of the whole earth with you.
  5. I will lay your flesh on the mountains, and fill the valleys with your height.
  6. I will also water with your blood the land in which you swim, even to the mountains; and the watercourses shall be full of you.
  7. When I shall extinguish you, I will cover the heavens, and create its stars dark; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not hook it up its light.
  8. All the bright lights of the sky will I create dark over you, and set darkness on your land, says the boss Yahweh.
  9. I will also trouble the hearts of a lot peoples, when I shall bring your destruction among the nations, into the countries which you have not known.
 10. Yes, I will create a lot peoples amazed at you, and their kings shall be horribly scared for you, when I shall brandish my sword before them; and they shall tremble at every moment, every man for his own life, in the day of your fall.
 11. For God's like Yahweh: The sword of the ruler of Babylon shall come through on you.
 12. By the swords of the mighty will I cause your multitude to fall; the terrible of the nations are they all: and they shall bring to nothing the pride of Egypt, and all its multitude shall be destroyed.
 13. I will tear down also all its animals from beside a lot waters; neither shall the foot of man trouble them any more, nor the hoofs of animals trouble them.
 14. then will I create their waters clear, and cause their rivers to run like oil, says the boss Yahweh.
 15. When I shall create the land of Egypt desolate and waste, a land destitute of that of which it was full, when I shall strike all those who dwell therein, then shall they get it that I am Yahweh.
 16. This is the lamentation with which they shall lament; the daughters of the nations shall lament therewith; over Egypt, and over all her multitude, shall they lament therewith, says the boss Yahweh.
 17. It happened also in the twelfth year, in the fifteenth day of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 18. Son of man, wail for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them down, even her, and the daughters of the famous nations, to the lower parts of the earth, with those who slide down into the pit.
 19. Whom do you pass in beauty? slide down, and be laid with the uncircumcised.
 20. They shall fall in the midst of those who are slain by the sword: she is delivered to the sword; draw her away and all her multitudes.
 21. The built different among the mighty shall spill the tea to him out of the midst of Sheol with those who help out him: they are gone down, they lie still, even the uncircumcised, slain by the sword.
 22. Asshur is there and all her company; her graves are all around her; all of them slain, fallen by the sword;
 23. whose graves are set in the uttermost parts of the pit, and her company is around her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who caused terror in the land of the living.
 24. there is Elam and all her multitude around her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who are gone down uncircumcised into the lower parts of the earth, who caused their terror in the land of the living, and have borne their shame with those who slide down to the pit.
 25. They have set her a bed in the midst of the slain with all her multitude; her graves are around her; all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for their terror was caused in the land of the living, and they have borne their shame with those who slide down to the pit: he is put in the midst of those who are slain.
 26. there is Meshech, Tubal, and all their multitude; their graves are around them; all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for they caused their terror in the land of the living.
 27. They shall not lie with the mighty who are fallen of the uncircumcised, who are gone down to Sheol with their weapons of war, and have laid their swords under their heads, and their iniquities are on their bones; for they were the terror of the mighty in the land of the living.
 28. But you shall be broken in the midst of the uncircumcised, and shall lie with those who are slain by the sword.
 29. there is Edom, her kings and all her princes, who in their might are laid with those who are slain by the sword: they shall lie with the uncircumcised, and with those who slide down to the pit.
 30. there are the princes of the north, all of them, and all the Sidonians, who are gone down with the slain; in the terror which they caused by their might they are put to shame; and they lie uncircumcised with those who are slain by the sword, and bear their shame with those who slide down to the pit.
 31. Pharaoh shall check it out them, and shall be comforted over all his multitude, even Pharaoh and all his army, slain by the sword, says the boss Yahweh.
 32. For I have put his terror in the land of the living; and he shall be laid in the midst of the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword, even Pharaoh and all his multitude, says the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 33

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, spill the tea to the children of your people, and tell them, When I bring the sword on a land, and the people of the land grab a man from among them, and set him for their watchman;
  3. if, when he sees the sword come through on the land, he blow the trumpet, and warn the people;
  4. then whoever hears the sound of the trumpet, and doesn’t grab warning, if the sword come through, and grab him away, his blood shall be on his own head.
  5. He heard the sound of the trumpet, and didn’t grab warning; his blood shall be on him; whereas if he had taken warning, he would have delivered his soul.
  6. But if the watchman sees the sword come through, and doesn’t blow the trumpet, and the people aren’t warned, and the sword comes, and grab any person from among them; he is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at the watchman’s hand.
  7. So you, son of man, I have set you a watchman to the house of Israel; so basically hear the word at my mouth, and hook it up them warning from me.
  8. When I tell the wicked, O wicked man, you shall surely die, and you don’t spill the tea to warn the wicked from his way; that wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at your hand.
  9. Nevertheless, if you warn the wicked of his way to turn from it, and he doesn’t turn from his way; he shall die in his iniquity, but you have delivered your soul.
 10. You, son of man, tell the house of Israel: Thus you spill the tea, saying, Our transgressions and our sins are on us, and we pine away in them; how then can we live?
 11. Tell them, As I live, says the boss Yahweh, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked; but that the wicked turn from his way and live: turn, turn from your evil ways; for why will you die, house of Israel?
 12. You, son of man, tell the children of your people, The righteousness of the doing what's right shall not deliver him in the day of his disobedience; and as for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall thereby in the day that he turns from his wickedness; neither shall he who is doing what's right be able to live thereby in the day that he sins.
 13. When I tell the doing what's right, that he shall surely live; if he trust to his righteousness, and commit iniquity, none of his doing what's right deeds shall be remembered; but in his iniquity that he has committed, therein shall he die.
 14. Again, when I say to the wicked, You shall surely die; if he turn from his messing up, and do that which is lawful and right;
 15. if the wicked restore the pledge, hook it up again that which he had taken by robbery, walk in the statutes of life, committing no iniquity; he shall surely live, he shall not die.
 16. None of his sins that he has committed shall be remembered against him: he has done that which is lawful and right; he shall surely live.
 17. Yet the children of your people say, The way of the boss is not equal: but as for them, their way is not equal.
 18. When the doing what's right turns from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, he shall even die therein.
 19. When the wicked turns from his wickedness, and does that which is lawful and right, he shall live thereby.
 20. Yet you say, The way of the boss is not equal. House of Israel, I will judge every one of you after his ways.
 21. It happened in the twelfth year of our captivity, in the tenth month, in the day five of the month, that one who had escaped out of Jerusalem came to me, saying, The city has been struck.
 22. now the hand of Yahweh had been on me in the evening, before he who was escaped came; and he had opened my mouth, until he came to me in the morning; and my mouth was opened, and I was no more mute.
 23. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 24. Son of man, they who inhabit those waste places in the land of Israel spill the tea, saying, Abraham was one, and he inherited the land: but we are a lot; the land is given us for inheritance.
 25. so basically tell them, God's like Yahweh: You eat with the blood, and lift up your eyes to your idols, and shed blood: and shall you possess the land?
 26. You stand on your sword, you work abomination, and every one of you defiles his neighbor’s wife: and shall you possess the land?
 27. You shall tell them, God's like Yahweh: As I live, surely those who are in the waste places shall fall by the sword; and him who is in the open field will I hook it up to the animals to be devoured; and those who are in the strongholds and in the caves shall die of the pestilence.
 28. I will create the land a desolation and an astonishment; and the pride of her power shall cease; and the mountains of Israel shall be desolate, so that none shall pass through.
 29. then shall they get it that I am Yahweh, when I have made the land a desolation and an astonishment, cuz of all their abominations which they have committed.
 30. As for you, son of man, the children of your people talk of you by the walls and in the doors of the houses, and spill the tea one to another, everyone to his brother, saying, Please come through and hear what is the word that comes forth from Yahweh.
 31. They come through to you as the people come through, and they sit before you as my people, and they hear your words, but don’t do them; for with their mouth they show much show love, but their heart goes after their gain.
 32. check this out, you are to them as a hella lovely song of one who has a pleasant voice, and can play well on an instrument; for they hear your words, but they don’t do them.
 33. When this comes to pass, (check this out, it comes), then shall they get it that a God's messenger has been among them.

# Ezekiel Chapter 34

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy, and tell them, even to the shepherds, God's like Yahweh: Woe to the shepherds of Israel who feed themselves! Shouldn’t the shepherds feed the sheep?
  3. You eat the fat, and you clothe yourself with the wool, you kill the fatlings; but you don’t feed the sheep.
  4. You haven’t strengthened the diseased, neither have you healed that which was sick, neither have you bound up that which was broken, neither have you brought back that which was driven away, neither have you sought that which was lost; but with force and with rigor you have ruled over them.
  5. They were scattered, cuz there was no shepherd; and they became food to all the animals of the field, and were scattered.
  6. My sheep wandered through all the mountains, and on every high hill: yes, my sheep were scattered on all the surface of the earth; and there was none who searched or sought.
  7. so basically, you shepherds, hear the word of Yahweh:
  8. As I live, says the boss Yahweh, surely cuz my sheep became a prey, and my sheep became food to all the animals of the field, cuz there was no shepherd, neither did my shepherds search for my sheep, but the shepherds fed themselves, and didn’t feed my sheep;
  9. so basically, you shepherds, hear the word of Yahweh:
 10. God's like Yahweh: check this out, I am against the shepherds; and I will require my sheep at their hand, and cause them to cease from feeding the sheep; neither shall the shepherds feed themselves any more; and I will deliver my sheep from their mouth, that they may not be food for them.
 11. For God's like Yahweh: check this out, I myself, even I, will search for my sheep, and will seek them out.
 12. As a shepherd seeks out his flock in the day that he is among his sheep that are scattered abroad, so will I seek out my sheep; and I will deliver them out of all places where they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day.
 13. I will bring them out from the peoples, and gather them from the countries, and will bring them into their own land; and I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the watercourses, and in all the inhabited places of the country.
 14. I will feed them with fire pasture; and on the mountains of the height of Israel shall their fold be: there shall they lie down in a fire fold; and on fat pasture shall they feed on the mountains of Israel.
 15. I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I will cause them to lie down, says the boss Yahweh.
 16. I will seek that which was lost, and will bring back that which was driven away, and will bind up that which was broken, and will strengthen that which was sick: but the fat and the built different I will tear down; I will feed them in justice.
 17. As for you, O my flock, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I judge between sheep and sheep, the rams and the male goats.
 18. Does it seem a tiny thing to you to have fed on the fire pasture, but you must tread down with your feet the residue of your pasture? and to have drunk of the clear waters, but you must foul the residue with your feet?
 19. As for my sheep, they eat that which you have trodden with your feet, and they drink that which you have fouled with your feet.
 20. so basically God's like Yahweh to them: check this out, I, even I, will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep.
 21. cuz you thrust with side and with shoulder, and push all the diseased with your horns, until you have scattered them abroad;
 22. so basically will I rescue my flock, and they shall no more be a prey; and I will judge between sheep and sheep.
 23. I will set up one shepherd over them, and he shall feed them, even my helper David; he shall feed them, and he shall be their shepherd.
 24. I, Yahweh, will be their God, and my helper David prince among them; I, Yahweh, have spoken it.
 25. I will create with them a God's promise of peace, and will cause evil animals to cease out of the land; and they shall dwell securely in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods.
 26. I will create them and the places around my hill a blessing; and I will cause the shower to come through down in its season; there shall be showers of blessing.
 27. The tree of the field shall yield its fruit, and the earth shall yield its increase, and they shall be secure in their land; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I have broken the bars of their yoke, and have delivered them out of the hand of those who made slaves of them.
 28. They shall no more be a prey to the nations, neither shall the animals of the earth devour them; but they shall dwell securely, and none shall create them scared.
 29. I will raise up to them a plantation for renown, and they shall be no more consumed with famine in the land, neither bear the shame of the nations any more.
 30. They shall get it that I, Yahweh, their God am with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, says the boss Yahweh.
 31. You my sheep, the sheep of my pasture, are men, and I am your God, says the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 35

  1. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, set your face against Mount Seir, and prophesy against it,
  3. and tell it, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I am against you, Mount Seir, and I will stretch out my hand against you, and I will create you a desolation and an astonishment.
  4. I will lay your cities waste, and you shall be desolate; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  5. cuz you have had a perpetual enmity, and have given over the children of Israel to the power of the sword in the time of their calamity, in the time of the iniquity of the end;
  6. so basically, as I live, says the boss Yahweh, I will prepare you for blood, and blood shall pursue you: since you have not hated blood, so basically blood shall pursue you.
  7. Thus will I create Mount Seir an astonishment and a desolation; and I will cut off from it him who passes through and him who returns.
  8. I will fill its mountains with its slain: in your hills and in your valleys and in all your watercourses shall they fall who are slain with the sword.
  9. I will create you a perpetual desolation, and your cities shall not be inhabited; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 10. cuz you have said, These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we will possess it; whereas Yahweh was there:
 11. so basically, as I live, says the boss Yahweh, I will do according to your anger, and according to your envy which you have shown out of your hatred against them; and I will create myself known among them, when I shall judge you.
 12. You shall get it that I, Yahweh, have heard all your insults which you have spoken against the mountains of Israel, saying, They are laid desolate, they have been given us to devour.
 13. You have magnified yourselves against me with your mouth, and have multiplied your words against me: I have heard it.
 14. God's like Yahweh: When the whole earth rejoices, I will create you desolate.
 15. As you rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel, cuz it was desolate, so will I do to you: you shall be desolate, Mount Seir, and all Edom, even all of it; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 36

  1. You, son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel, and say, You mountains of Israel, hear the word of Yahweh.
  2. God's like Yahweh: cuz the enemy has said against you, Aha! and, The ancient high places are ours in possession;
  3. so basically prophesy, and say, God's like Yahweh: cuz, even cuz they have made you desolate, and swallowed you up on every side, that you might be a possession to the residue of the nations, and you are taken up in the lips of talkers, and the evil report of the people;
  4. so basically, you mountains of Israel, hear what God was like Yahweh: God's like Yahweh to the mountains and to the hills, to the watercourses and to the valleys, to the desolate wastes and to the cities that are forsaken, which are become a prey and derision to the residue of the nations that are all around;
  5. so basically God's like Yahweh: Surely in the fire of my jealousy have I spoken against the residue of the nations, and against all Edom, that have appointed my land to themselves for a possession with the joy of all their heart, with despite of soul, to cast it out for a prey.
  6. so basically prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and tell the mountains and to the hills, to the watercourses and to the valleys, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I have spoken in my jealousy and in my wrath, cuz you have borne the shame of the nations:
  7. so basically God's like Yahweh: I have sworn, saying, Surely the nations that are around you, they shall bear their shame.
  8. But you, mountains of Israel, you shall shoot forth your branches, and yield your fruit to my people Israel; for they are at hand to come through.
  9. For, check this out, I am for you, and I will turn into you, and you shall be tilled and sown;
 10. and I will multiply men on you, all the house of Israel, even all of it; and the cities shall be inhabited, and the waste places shall be built;
 11. and I will multiply on you man and animal; and they shall increase and be fruitful; and I will cause you to be inhabited after your former estate, and will do better to you than at your beginnings: and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 12. Yes, I will cause men to walk on you, even my people Israel; and they shall possess you, and you shall be their inheritance, and you shall no more henceforth bereave them of children.
 13. God's like Yahweh: cuz they say to you, You are a devourer of men, and have been a bereaver of your nation;
 14. so basically you shall devour men no more, neither bereave your nation any more, says the boss Yahweh;
 15. neither will I let you hear any more the shame of the nations, neither shall you bear the reproach of the peoples any more, neither shall you cause your nation to stumble any more, says the boss Yahweh.
 16. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 17. Son of man, when the house of Israel lived in their own land, they defiled it by their way and by their doings: their way before me was as the uncleanness of a woman in her impurity.
 18. so basically I poured out my wrath on them for the blood which they had poured out on the land, and cuz they had defiled it with their idols;
 19. and I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries: according to their way and according to their doings I judged them.
 20. When they came to the nations, where they went, they profaned my set apart name; in that men said of them, These are the people of Yahweh, and are gone forth out of his land.
 21. But I had respect for my set apart name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations, where they went.
 22. so basically tell the house of Israel, God's like Yahweh: I don’t do this for your sake, house of Israel, but for my set apart name, which you have profaned among the nations, where you went.
 23. I will sanctify my major name, which has been profaned among the nations, which you have profaned in their midst; and the nations shall get it that I am Yahweh, says the boss Yahweh, when I shall be sanctified in you before their eyes.
 24. For I will grab you from among the nations, and gather you out of all the countries, and will bring you into your own land.
 25. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean: from all your filthiness, and from all your idols, will I cleanse you.
 26. I will also hook it up you a new heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will grab away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will hook it up you a heart of flesh.
 27. I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you shall keep my ordinances, and do them.
 28. You shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers; and you shall be my people, and I will be your God.
 29. I will rescue you from all your uncleanness: and I will call for the grain, and will multiply it, and lay no famine on you.
 30. I will multiply the fruit of the tree, and the increase of the field, that you may receive no more the reproach of famine among the nations.
 31. then you shall remember your evil ways, and your doings that were not fire; and you shall loathe yourselves in your own sight for your iniquities and for your abominations.
 32. Nor for your sake do I this, says the boss Yahweh, be it known to you: be ashamed and confounded for your ways, house of Israel.
 33. God's like Yahweh: In the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited, and the waste places shall be built.
 34. The land that was desolate shall be tilled, whereas it was a desolation in the sight of all who passed by.
 35. They shall say, This land that was desolate has become like the garden of Eden; and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are fortified and inhabited.
 36. then the nations that are left around you shall get it that I, Yahweh, have built the ruined places, and planted that which was desolate: I, Yahweh, have spoken it, and I will do it.
 37. God's like Yahweh: For this, moreover, will I be inquired of by the house of Israel, to do it for them: I will increase them with men like a flock.
 38. As the flock for giving it up, as the flock of Jerusalem in her appointed feasts, so shall the waste cities be filled with flocks of men; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 37

  1. The hand of Yahweh was on me, and he brought me out in the Spirit of Yahweh, and set me down in the midst of the valley; and it was full of bones.
  2. He caused me to pass by them all around: and check this out, there were hella a lot in the open valley; and check this out, they were hella dry.
  3. He said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? I answered, boss Yahweh, you get it.
  4. Again he said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and tell them, you dry bones, hear the word of Yahweh.
  5. God's like Yahweh to these bones: check this out, I will cause breath to enter into you, and you shall live.
  6. I will lay sinews on you, and will bring up flesh on you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  7. So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and check this out, an earthquake; and the bones came together, bone to its bone.
  8. I checked out, and, check this out, there were sinews on them, and flesh came up, and skin covered them above; but there was no breath in them.
  9. then he said to me, Prophesy to the wind, prophesy, son of man, and tell the wind, God's like Yahweh: come through from the four winds, breath, and breathe on these slain, that they may live.
 10. So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood up on their feet, an exceedingly major army.
 11. then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel: check this out, they say, Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost; we are clean cut off.
 12. so basically prophesy, and tell them, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I will open your graves, and cause you to come through up out of your graves, my people; and I will bring you into the land of Israel.
 13. You shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I have opened your graves, and caused you to come through up out of your graves, my people.
 14. I will put my Spirit in you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land: and you shall get it that I, Yahweh, have spoken it and performed it, says Yahweh.
 15. The word of Yahweh came again to me, saying,
 16. You, son of man, grab one stick, and write on it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions: then grab another stick, and write on it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel his companions:
 17. and join them for you one to another into one stick, that they may become one in your hand.
 18. When the children of your people shall spill the tea to you, saying, Will you not show us what you mean by these?
 19. tell them, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I will grab the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel his companions; and I will put them with it, even with the stick of Judah, and create them one stick, and they shall be one in my hand.
 20. The sticks whereon you write shall be in your hand before their eyes.
 21. Say to them, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I will grab the children of Israel from among the nations, where they are gone, and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land:
 22. and I will create them one nation in the land, on the mountains of Israel; and one ruler shall be ruler to them all; and they shall be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms any more at all;
 23. neither shall they defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions; but I will rescue them out of all their dwelling places, in which they have sinned, and will cleanse them: so shall they be my people, and I will be their God.
 24. My helper David shall be ruler over them; and they all shall have one shepherd: they shall also walk in my ordinances, and observe my statutes, and do them.
 25. They shall dwell in the land that I have given to Jacob my helper, in which your fathers lived; and they shall dwell therein, they, and their children, and their children’s children, forever: and David my helper shall be their prince for ever.
 26. Moreover I will create a God's promise of peace with them; it shall be an everlasting God's promise with them; and I will place them, and multiply them, and will set my sanctuary in their midst forevermore.
 27. My tent also shall be with them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
 28. The nations shall get it that I am Yahweh who sanctifies Israel, when my sanctuary shall be in their midst forevermore.

# Ezekiel Chapter 38

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, set your face toward Gog, of the land of Magog, the prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal, and prophesy against him,
  3. and say, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I am against you, Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal:
  4. and I will turn you around, and put hooks into your jaws, and I will bring you forth, with all your army, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed in full armor, a major company with buckler and shield, all of them handling swords;
  5. Persia, Cush, and Put with them, all of them with shield and helmet;
  6. Gomer, and all his hordes; the house of Togarmah in the uttermost parts of the north, and all his hordes; even a lot peoples with you.
  7. Be prepared, yes, prepare yourself, you, and all your companies who are assembled to you, and be a guard to them.
  8. After a lot days you shall be visited: in the latter years you shall come through into the land that is brought back from the sword, that is gathered out of a lot peoples, on the mountains of Israel, which have been a continual waste; but it is brought forth out of the peoples, and they shall dwell securely, all of them.
  9. You shall ascend, you shall come through like a storm, you shall be like a cloud to cover the land, you, and all your hordes, and a lot peoples with you.
 10. God's like Yahweh: It shall happen in that day, that things shall come through into your mind, and you shall devise an evil device:
 11. and you shall say, I will slide up to the land of unwalled villages; I will slide to those who are at rest, who dwell securely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having neither bars nor gates;
 12. to grab the spoil and to grab the prey; to turn your hand against the waste places that are now inhabited, and against the people who are gathered out of the nations, who have gotten livestock and goods, who dwell in the middle of the earth.
 13. Sheba, and Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, with all the young lions of it, shall tell you, Have you come through to grab the spoil? have you assembled your company to grab the prey? to carry away silver and gold, to grab away livestock and goods, to grab major spoil?
 14. so basically, son of man, prophesy, and tell Gog, God's like Yahweh: In that day when my people Israel dwells securely, shall you not get it it?
 15. You shall come through from your place out of the uttermost parts of the north, you, and a lot peoples with you, all of them riding on horses, a major company and a mighty army;
 16. and you shall come through up against my people Israel, as a cloud to cover the land: it shall happen in the latter days, that I will bring you against my land, that the nations may get it me, when I shall be sanctified in you, Gog, before their eyes.
 17. God's like Yahweh: Are you he of whom I spoke in old time by my servants the prophets of Israel, who prophesied in those days for a lot years that I would bring you against them?
 18. It shall happen in that day, when Gog shall come through against the land of Israel, says the boss Yahweh, that my wrath shall come through up into my nostrils.
 19. For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath have I spoken, Surely in that day there shall be a major shaking in the land of Israel;
 20. so that the fish of the sea, and the birds of the sky, and the animals of the field, and all creeping things who creep on the earth, and all the men who are on the surface of the earth, shall shake at my presence, and the mountains shall be thrown down, and the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground.
 21. I will call for a sword against him to all my mountains, says the boss Yahweh: every man’s sword shall be against his brother.
 22. With pestilence and with blood will I enter into judgment with him; and I will rain on him, and on his hordes, and on the a lot peoples who are with him, an overflowing shower, and major hailstones, fire, and sulfur.
 23. I will magnify myself, and sanctify myself, and I will create myself known in the eyes of a lot nations; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 39

  1. You, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I am against you, Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal:
  2. and I will turn you around, and will show the way you on, and will cause you to come through up from the uttermost parts of the north; and I will bring you on the mountains of Israel;
  3. and I will strike your bow out of your left hand, and will cause your arrows to fall out of your right hand.
  4. You shall fall on the mountains of Israel, you, and all your hordes, and the peoples who are with you: I will hook it up you to the ravenous birds of every sort, and to the animals of the field to be devoured.
  5. You shall fall on the open field; for I have spoken it, says the boss Yahweh.
  6. I will send a fire on Magog, and on those who dwell securely in the islands; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  7. My set apart name will I create known in the midst of my people Israel; neither will I allow my set apart name to be profaned any more: and the nations shall get it that I am Yahweh, the set apart One in Israel.
  8. check this out, it comes, and it shall be done, says the boss Yahweh; this is the day about which I have spoken.
  9. Those who dwell in the cities of Israel shall slide forth, and shall create fires of the weapons and burn them, both the shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and the war clubs, and the spears, and they shall create fires of them seven years;
 10. so that they shall grab no wood out of the field, neither cut down any out of the forests; for they shall create fires of the weapons; and they shall plunder those who plundered them, and rob those who robbed them, says the boss Yahweh.
 11. It shall happen in that day, that I will hook it up to Gog a place for burial in Israel, the valley of those who pass through on the east of the sea; and it shall stop those who pass through: and there shall they bury Gog and all his multitude; and they shall call it The valley of Hamon Gog.
 12. Seven months shall the house of Israel be burying them, that they may cleanse the land.
 13. Yes, all the people of the land shall bury them; and it shall be to them a renown in the day that I shall be glorified, says the boss Yahweh.
 14. They shall set apart men of continual employment, who shall pass through the land, and, with those who pass through, those who bury those who remain on the surface of the land, to cleanse it: after the end of seven months shall they search.
 15. Those who pass through the land shall pass through; and when any sees a man’s bone, then shall he set up a sign by it, until the undertakers have buried it in the valley of Hamon Gog.
 16. Hamonah shall also be the name of a city. Thus shall they cleanse the land.
 17. You, son of man, God's like Yahweh: spill the tea to the birds of every sort, and to every animal of the field, Assemble yourselves, and come through; gather yourselves on every side to my giving it up that I do giving it up for you, even a major giving it up on the mountains of Israel, that you may eat flesh and drink blood.
 18. You shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams, of lambs, and of goats, of bulls, all of them fatlings of Bashan.
 19. You shall eat fat until you be full, and drink blood until you are drunk, of my giving it up which I have sacrificed for you.
 20. You shall be filled at my table with horses and chariots, with mighty men, and with all men of war, says the boss Yahweh.
 21. I will set my glory among the nations; and all the nations shall check it out my judgment that I have executed, and my hand that I have laid on them.
 22. So the house of Israel shall get it that I am Yahweh their God, from that day and forward.
 23. The nations shall get it that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity; cuz they trespassed against me, and I hid my face from them: so I gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and they fell all of them by the sword.
 24. According to their uncleanness and according to their transgressions did I to them; and I hid my face from them.
 25. so basically God's like Yahweh: now will I bring back the captivity of Jacob, and have mercy on the whole house of Israel; and I will be jealous for my set apart name.
 26. They shall bear their shame, and all their trespasses by which they have trespassed against me, when they shall dwell securely in their land, and none shall create them scared;
 27. when I have brought them back from the peoples, and gathered them out of their enemies’ lands, and am sanctified in them in the sight of a lot nations.
 28. They shall get it that I am Yahweh their God, in that I caused them to slide into captivity among the nations, and have gathered them to their own land; and I will leave none of them any more there;
 29. neither will I hide my face any more from them; for I have poured out my Spirit on the house of Israel, says the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 40

  1. In the five and twentieth year of our captivity, at the start of the year, in the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after that the city was struck, in the same day, the hand of Yahweh was on me, and he brought me there.
  2. In the visions of God brought he me into the land of Israel, and set me down on a hella high mountain, whereon was as it were the frame of a city on the south.
  3. He brought me there; and, check this out, there was a man, whose appearance was like the appearance of brass, with a line of flax in his hand, and a measuring reed; and he stood in the gate.
  4. The man said to me, Son of man, check it out with your eyes, and hear with your ears, and set your heart on all that I shall show you; for, to the intent that I may show them to you, you are brought here: declare all that you check it out to the house of Israel.
  5. check this out, a wall on the outside of the house all around, and in the man’s hand a measuring reed six cubits long, of a cubit and a handbreadth each: so he measured the thickness of the building, one reed; and the height, one reed.
  6. then came he to the gate which looks toward the east, and went up its steps: and he measured the threshold of the gate, one reed broad; and the other threshold, one reed broad.
  7. Every lodge was one reed long, and one reed broad; and the space between the lodges was five cubits; and the threshold of the gate by the porch of the gate toward the house was one reed.
  8. He measured also the porch of the gate toward the house, one reed.
  9. then measured he the porch of the gate, eight cubits; and its posts, two cubits; and the porch of the gate was toward the house.
 10. The lodges of the gate eastward were three on this side, and three on that side; they three were of one measure: and the posts had one measure on this side and on that side.
 11. He measured the breadth of the opening of the gate, ten cubits; and the length of the gate, thirteen cubits;
 12. and a border before the lodges, one cubit on this side, and a border, one cubit on that side; and the lodges, six cubits on this side, and six cubits on that side.
 13. He measured the gate from the roof of the one lodge to the roof of the other, a breadth of twenty-five cubits; door against door.
 14. He made also posts, sixty cubits; and the court reached to the posts, around the gate.
 15. From the forefront of the gate at the entrance to the forefront of the inner porch of the gate were fifty cubits.
 16. there were closed windows to the lodges, and to their posts within the gate all around, and likewise to the arches; and windows were around inward; and on each post were palm trees.
 17. then brought he me into the outer court; and check this out, there were rooms and a pavement, made for the court all around: thirty rooms were on the pavement.
 18. The pavement was by the side of the gates, answerable to the length of the gates, even the lower pavement.
 19. then he measured the breadth from the forefront of the lower gate to the forefront of the inner court outside, one hundred cubits, both on the east and on the north.
 20. The gate of the outer court whose prospect is toward the north, he measured its length and its breadth.
 21. The lodges of it were three on this side and three on that side; and its posts and its arches were after the measure of the first gate: its length was fifty cubits, and the breadth twenty-five cubits.
 22. The windows of it, and its arches, and the palm trees of it, were after the measure of the gate whose prospect is toward the east; and they went up to it by seven steps; and its arches were before them.
 23. there was a gate to the inner court over against the other gate, both on the north and on the east; and he measured from gate to gate one hundred cubits.
 24. He led me toward the south; and check this out, a gate toward the south: and he measured its posts and its arches according to these measures.
 25. there were windows in it and in its arches all around, like those windows: the length was fifty cubits, and the breadth twenty-five cubits.
 26. there were seven steps to slide up to it, and its arches were before them; and it had palm trees, one on this side, and another on that side, on its posts.
 27. there was a gate to the inner court toward the south: and he measured from gate to gate toward the south a hundred cubits.
 28. then he brought me to the inner court by the south gate: and he measured the south gate according to these measures;
 29. and its lodges, and its posts, and its arches, according to these measures: and there were windows in it and in its arches all around; it was fifty cubits long, and twenty-five cubits broad.
 30. there were arches all around, twenty-five cubits long, and five cubits broad.
 31. The arches of it were toward the outer court; and palm trees were on its posts: and the ascent to it had eight steps.
 32. He brought me into the inner court toward the east: and he measured the gate according to these measures;
 33. and its lodges, and its posts, and its arches, according to these measures: and there were windows therein and in its arches all around; it was fifty cubits long, and twenty-five cubits broad.
 34. The arches of it were toward the outer court; and palm trees were on its posts, on this side, and on that side: and the ascent to it had eight steps.
 35. He brought me to the north gate: and he measured it according to these measures;
 36. its lodges, its posts, and its arches: and there were windows therein all around; the length was fifty cubits, and the breadth twenty-five cubits.
 37. The posts of it were toward the outer court; and palm trees were on its posts, on this side, and on that side: and the ascent to it had eight steps.
 38. A room with its door was by the posts at the gates; there they washed the burnt giving to God.
 39. In the porch of the gate were two tables on this side, and two tables on that side, to kill thereon the burnt giving to God and the messing up giving to God and the trespass giving to God.
 40. On the one side outside, as one goes up to the entry of the gate toward the north, were two tables; and on the other side, which belonged to the porch of the gate, were two tables.
 41. Four tables were on this side, and four tables on that side, by the side of the gate; eight tables, whereupon they killed the sacrifices.
 42. there were four tables for the burnt giving to God, of cut stone, a cubit and a half long, and a cubit and a half broad, and one cubit high; whereupon they laid the instruments with which they killed the burnt giving to God and the giving it up.
 43. The hooks, a handbreadth long, were fastened within all around: and on the tables was the flesh of the giving to God.
 44. Outside of the inner gate were rooms for the singers in the inner court, which was at the side of the north gate; and their prospect was toward the south; one at the side of the east gate having the prospect toward the north.
 45. He said to me, This room, whose prospect is toward the south, is for the priests, the keepers of the duty of the house;
 46. and the room whose prospect is toward the north is for the priests, the keepers of the duty of the prayer spot: these are the sons of Zadok, who from among the sons of Levi come through near to Yahweh to minister to him.
 47. He measured the court, one hundred cubits long, and a hundred cubits broad, foursquare; and the prayer spot was before the house.
 48. then he brought me to the porch of the house, and measured each post of the porch, five cubits on this side, and five cubits on that side: and the breadth of the gate was three cubits on this side, and three cubits on that side.
 49. The length of the porch was twenty cubits, and the breadth eleven cubits; even by the steps by which they went up to it: and there were pillars by the posts, one on this side, and another on that side.

# Ezekiel Chapter 41

  1. He brought me to the God's house, and measured the posts, six cubits broad on the one side, and six cubits broad on the other side, which was the breadth of the tent.
  2. The breadth of the entrance was ten cubits; and the sides of the entrance were five cubits on the one side, and five cubits on the other side: and he measured its length, forty cubits, and the breadth, twenty cubits.
  3. then went he inward, and measured each post of the entrance, two cubits; and the entrance, six cubits; and the breadth of the entrance, seven cubits.
  4. He measured its length, twenty cubits, and the breadth, twenty cubits, before the God's house: and he said to me, This is the most set apart place.
  5. then he measured the wall of the house, six cubits; and the breadth of every side room, four cubits, all around the house on every side.
  6. The side rooms were in three stories, one over another, and thirty in order; and they entered into the wall which belonged to the house for the side rooms all around, that they might have hold therein, and not have hold in the wall of the house.
  7. The side rooms were broader as they encompassed the house higher and higher; for the encompassing of the house went higher and higher around the house: so basically the breadth of the house continued upward; and so one went up from the lowest room to the highest by the middle room.
  8. I checked out also that the house had a raised base all around: the foundations of the side rooms were a full reed of six major cubits.
  9. The thickness of the wall, which was for the side rooms, on the outside, was five cubits: and that which was left was the place of the side rooms that belonged to the house.
 10. Between the rooms was a breadth of twenty cubits around the house on every side.
 11. The doors of the side rooms were toward the place that was left, one door toward the north, and another door toward the south: and the breadth of the place that was left was five cubits all around.
 12. The building that was before the separate place at the side toward the west was seventy cubits broad; and the wall of the building was five cubits thick all around, and its length ninety cubits.
 13. So he measured the house, one hundred cubits long; and the separate place, and the building, with its walls, one hundred cubits long;
 14. also the breadth of the face of the house, and of the separate place toward the east, one hundred cubits.
 15. He measured the length of the building before the separate place which was at its back, and its galleries on the one side and on the other side, one hundred cubits; and the inner God's house, and the porches of the court;
 16. the thresholds, and the closed windows, and the galleries around on their three stories, over against the threshold, with wood ceilings all around, and from the ground up to the windows, (now the windows were covered),
 17. to the space above the door, even to the inner house, and outside, and by all the wall all around inside and outside, by measure.
 18. It was made with cherubim and palm trees; and a palm tree was between cherub and cherub, and every cherub had two faces;
 19. so that there was the face of a man toward the palm tree on the one side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree on the other side. thus was it made through all the house all around:
 20. from the ground to above the door were cherubim and palm trees made: thus was the wall of the God's house.
 21. As for the God's house, the door posts were squared; and as for the face of the sanctuary, the appearance of it was as the appearance of the God's house.
 22. The prayer spot was of wood, three cubits high, and its length two cubits; and its corners, and its length, and its walls, were of wood: and he said to me, This is the table that is before Yahweh.
 23. The God's house and the sanctuary had two doors.
 24. The doors had two leaves apiece, two turning leaves: two leaves for the one door, and two leaves for the other.
 25. there were made on them, on the doors of the God's house, cherubim and palm trees, like as were made on the walls; and there was a threshold of wood on the face of the porch outside.
 26. there were closed windows and palm trees on the one side and on the other side, on the sides of the porch: thus were the side rooms of the house, and the thresholds.

# Ezekiel Chapter 42

  1. then he brought me forth into the outer court, the way toward the north: and he brought me into the room that was over against the separate place, and which was over against the building toward the north.
  2. Before the length of one hundred cubits was the north door, and the breadth was fifty cubits.
  3. Over against the twenty cubits which belonged to the inner court, and over against the pavement which belonged to the outer court, was gallery against gallery in the third story.
  4. Before the rooms was a walk of ten cubits’ breadth inward, a way of one cubit; and their doors were toward the north.
  5. now the upper rooms were shorter; for the galleries took away from these, more than from the lower and the middle, in the building.
  6. For they were in three stories, and they didn’t have pillars as the pillars of the courts: so basically the uppermost was straitened more than the lowest and the middle from the ground.
  7. The wall that was outside by the side of the rooms, toward the outer court before the rooms, its length was fifty cubits.
  8. For the length of the rooms that were in the outer court was fifty cubits: and check this out, before the God's house were one hundred cubits.
  9. From under these rooms was the entry on the east side, as one goes into them from the outer court.
 10. In the thickness of the wall of the court toward the east, before the separate place, and before the building, there were rooms.
 11. The way before them was like the appearance of the way of the rooms which were toward the north; according to their length so was their breadth: and all their exits were both according to their fashions, and according to their doors.
 12. According to the doors of the rooms that were toward the south was a door at the head of the way, even the way directly before the wall toward the east, as one enters into them.
 13. then he said to me, The north rooms and the south rooms, which are before the separate place, they are the set apart rooms, where the priests who are near to Yahweh shall eat the most set apart things: there shall they lay the most set apart things, and the meal giving to God, and the messing up giving to God, and the trespass giving to God; for the place is set apart.
 14. When the priests enter in, then shall they not slide out of the set apart place into the outer court, but there they shall lay their garments in which they minister; for they are set apart: and they shall put on other garments, and shall approach to that which pertains to the people.
 15. now when he had made an end of measuring the inner house, he brought me forth by the way of the gate whose prospect is toward the east, and measured it all around.
 16. He measured on the east side with the measuring reed five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed all around.
 17. He measured on the north side five hundred reeds with the measuring reed all around.
 18. He measured on the south side five hundred reeds with the measuring reed.
 19. He turned about to the west side, and measured five hundred reeds with the measuring reed.
 20. He measured it on the four sides: it had a wall around it, the length five hundred, and the breadth five hundred, to create a separation between that which was set apart and that which was common.

# Ezekiel Chapter 43

  1. Afterward he brought me to the gate, even the gate that looks toward the east.
  2. check this out, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east: and his voice was like the sound of a lot waters; and the earth shined with his glory.
  3. It was according to the appearance of the vision which I checked out, even according to the vision that I checked out when I came to tear down the city; and the visions were like the vision that I checked out by the river Chebar; and I fell on my face.
  4. The glory of Yahweh came into the house by the way of the gate whose prospect is toward the east.
  5. The Spirit took me up, and brought me into the inner court; and check this out, the glory of Yahweh filled the house.
  6. I heard one speaking to me out of the house; and a man stood by me.
  7. He said to me, Son of man, this is the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel forever. The house of Israel shall no more defile my set apart name, neither they, nor their kings, by their prostitution, and by the dead bodies of their kings in their high places;
  8. in their setting of their threshold by my threshold, and their doorpost beside my doorpost, and there was but the wall between me and them; and they have defiled my set apart name by their abominations which they have committed: so basically I have consumed them in my anger.
  9. now let them put away their prostitution, and the dead bodies of their kings, far from me; and I will dwell in their midst forever.
 10. You, son of man, show the house to the house of Israel, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities; and let them measure the pattern.
 11. If they be ashamed of all that they have done, create known to them the form of the house, and its fashion, and its exits, and its entrances, and all its forms, and all its ordinances, and all its forms, and all its laws; and write it in their sight; that they may keep the whole form of it, and all its ordinances, and do them.
 12. This is the law of the house: on the top of the mountain the whole limit around it shall be most set apart. check this out, this is the law of the house.
 13. These are the measures of the prayer spot by cubits (the cubit is a cubit and a handbreadth): the bottom shall be a cubit, and the breadth a cubit, and its border around its edge a span; and this shall be the base of the prayer spot.
 14. From the bottom on the ground to the lower ledge shall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit; and from the lesser ledge to the greater ledge shall be four cubits, and the breadth a cubit.
 15. The upper prayer spot shall be four cubits; and from the prayer spot hearth and upward there shall be four horns.
 16. The prayer spot hearth shall be twelve cubits long by twelve broad, square in the four sides of it.
 17. The ledge shall be fourteen cubits long by fourteen broad in the four sides of it; and the border about it shall be half a cubit; and its bottom shall be a cubit around; and its steps shall look toward the east.
 18. He said to me, Son of man, God's like Yahweh: These are the ordinances of the prayer spot in the day when they shall create it, to offer burnt offerings thereon, and to sprinkle blood thereon.
 19. You shall hook it up to the priests the Levites who are of the seed of Zadok, who are near to me, to minister to me, says the boss Yahweh, a young bull for a messing up giving to God.
 20. You shall grab of its blood, and put it on the four horns of it, and on the four corners of the ledge, and on the border all around: thus you shall cleanse it and create atonement for it.
 21. You shall also grab the bull of the messing up giving to God, and it shall be burnt in the appointed place of the house, outside of the sanctuary.
 22. On the day two you shall offer a male goat without blemish for a messing up giving to God; and they shall cleanse the prayer spot, as they cleansed it with the bull.
 23. When you have finished cleansing it, you shall offer a young bull without blemish, and a ram out of the flock without blemish.
 24. You shall bring them near to Yahweh, and the priests shall cast salt on them, and they shall offer them up for a burnt giving to God to Yahweh.
 25. Seven days you shall prepare every day a goat for a messing up giving to God: they shall also prepare a young bull, and a ram out of the flock, without blemish.
 26. Seven days shall they create atonement for the prayer spot and purify it; so shall they consecrate it.
 27. When they have accomplished the days, it shall be that on the eighth day, and forward, the priests shall create your burnt offerings on the prayer spot, and your peace offerings; and I will accept you, says the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 44

  1. then he brought me back by the way of the outer gate of the sanctuary, which looks toward the east; and it was shut.
  2. Yahweh said to me, This gate shall be shut; it shall not be opened, neither shall any man enter in by it; for Yahweh, the God of Israel, has entered in by it; so basically it shall be shut.
  3. As for the prince, he shall sit therein as prince to eat bread before Yahweh; he shall enter by the way of the porch of the gate, and shall slide out by the way of the same.
  4. then he brought me by the way of the north gate before the house; and I looked, and check this out, the glory of Yahweh filled the house of Yahweh: and I fell on my face.
  5. Yahweh said to me, Son of man, mark well, and check it out with your eyes, and hear with your ears all that I tell you concerning all the ordinances of the house of Yahweh, and all its laws; and mark well the entrance of the house, with every exit of the sanctuary.
  6. You shall tell the rebellious, even to the house of Israel, God's like Yahweh: you house of Israel, let it suffice you of all your abominations,
  7. in that you have brought in foreigners, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, to be in my sanctuary, to profane it, even my house, when you offer my bread, the fat and the blood, and they have broken my God's promise, to add to all your abominations.
  8. You have not performed the duty of my set apart things; but you have set performers of my duty in my sanctuary for yourselves.
  9. God's like Yahweh, No foreigner, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, shall enter into my sanctuary, of any foreigners who are among the children of Israel.
 10. But the Levites who went far from me, when Israel went astray, who went astray from me after their idols, they shall bear their iniquity.
 11. Yet they shall be ministers in my sanctuary, having oversight at the gates of the house, and ministering in the house: they shall kill the burnt giving to God and the giving it up for the people, and they shall stand before them to minister to them.
 12. cuz they ministered to them before their idols, and became a stumbling block of iniquity to the house of Israel; so basically have I lifted up my hand against them, says the boss Yahweh, and they shall bear their iniquity.
 13. They shall not come through near to me, to execute the office of priest to me, nor to come through near to any of my set apart things, to the things that are most set apart; but they shall bear their shame, and their abominations which they have committed.
 14. Yet will I create them performers of the duty of the house, for all its service, and for all that shall be done therein.
 15. But the priests the Levites, the sons of Zadok, who performed the duty of my sanctuary when the children of Israel went astray from me, they shall come through near to me to minister to me; and they shall stand before me to offer to me the fat and the blood, says the boss Yahweh:
 16. they shall enter into my sanctuary, and they shall come through near to my table, to minister to me, and they shall keep my instruction.
 17. It shall be that, when they enter in at the gates of the inner court, they shall be clothed with linen garments; and no wool shall come through on them, while they minister in the gates of the inner court, and within.
 18. They shall have linen tires on their heads, and shall have linen breeches on their waists; they shall not clothe themselves with anything that causes sweat.
 19. When they slide forth into the outer court, even into the outer court to the people, they shall put off their garments in which they minister, and lay them in the set apart rooms; and they shall put on other garments, that they not sanctify the people with their garments.
 20. Neither shall they shave their heads, nor allow their locks to grow long; they shall only cut off the hair of their heads.
 21. Neither shall any of the priests drink wine, when they enter into the inner court.
 22. Neither shall they grab for their wives a widow, nor her who is put away; but they shall grab virgins of the seed of the house of Israel, or a widow who is the widow of a priest.
 23. They shall drop knowledge my people the difference between the set apart and the common, and cause them to discern between the unclean and the clean.
 24. In a controversy they shall stand to judge; according to my ordinances shall they judge it: and they shall keep my laws and my statutes in all my appointed feasts; and they shall create my Sabbaths set apart.
 25. They shall slide in to no dead person to defile themselves; but for father, or for mother, or for son, or for daughter, for brother, or for sister who has had no husband, they may defile themselves.
 26. After he is cleansed, they shall reckon to him seven days.
 27. In the day that he goes into the sanctuary, into the inner court, to minister in the sanctuary, he shall offer his messing up giving to God, says the boss Yahweh.
 28. They shall have an inheritance: I am their inheritance; and you shall hook it up them no possession in Israel; I am their possession.
 29. They shall eat the meal giving to God, and the messing up giving to God, and the trespass giving to God; and every devoted thing in Israel shall be theirs.
 30. The first of all the first fruits of every thing, and every giving to God of everything, of all your offerings, shall be for the priest: you shall also hook it up to the priests the first of your dough, to cause a blessing to rest on your house.
 31. The priests shall not eat of anything that dies of itself, or is torn, whether it be bird or animal.

# Ezekiel Chapter 45

  1. Moreover, when you shall divide by lot the land for inheritance, you shall offer an giving to God to Yahweh, a set apart portion of the land; the length shall be the length of twenty-five thousand reeds, and the breadth shall be ten thousand: it shall be set apart in all its border all around.
  2. Of this there shall be for the set apart place five hundred in length by five hundred in breadth, square all around; and fifty cubits for its suburbs all around.
  3. Of this measure you shall measure a length of twenty-five thousand, and a breadth of ten thousand: and in it shall be the sanctuary, which is most set apart.
  4. It is a set apart portion of the land; it shall be for the priests, the ministers of the sanctuary, who come through near to minister to Yahweh; and it shall be a place for their houses, and a set apart place for the sanctuary.
  5. Twenty-five thousand in length, and ten thousand in breadth, shall be to the Levites, the ministers of the house, for a possession to themselves, for twenty rooms.
  6. You shall appoint the possession of the city five thousand broad, and twenty-five thousand long, side by side with the giving to God of the set apart portion: it shall be for the whole house of Israel.
  7. Whatever is for the prince shall be on the one side and on the other side of the set apart giving to God and of the possession of the city, in front of the set apart giving to God and in front of the possession of the city, on the west side westward, and on the east side eastward; and in length answerable to one of the portions, from the west border to the east border.
  8. In the land it shall be to him for a possession in Israel: and my princes shall no more oppress my people; but they shall hook it up the land to the house of Israel according to their tribes.
  9. God's like Yahweh: Let it suffice you, princes of Israel: remove violence and spoil, and execute justice and righteousness; dispossessing my people, says the boss Yahweh.
 10. You shall have just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bath.
 11. The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, that the bath may contain the tenth part of a homer, and the ephah the tenth part of a homer: its measure shall be after the homer.
 12. The shekel shall be twenty gerahs. Twenty shekels plus twenty-five shekels plus fifteen shekels shall be your mina.
 13. This is the giving to God that you shall offer: the sixth part of an ephah from a homer of wheat; and you shall hook it up the sixth part of an ephah from a homer of barley;
 14. and the set portion of oil, of the bath of oil, the tenth part of a bath out of the cor, which is ten baths, even a homer; (for ten baths are a homer;)
 15. and one lamb of the flock, out of two hundred, from the well-watered pastures of Israel—for a meal giving to God, and for a burnt giving to God, and for peace offerings, to create atonement for them, says the boss Yahweh.
 16. All the people of the land shall hook it up to this giving to God for the prince in Israel.
 17. It shall be the prince’s part to hook it up the burnt offerings, and the meal offerings, and the drink offerings, in the feasts, and on the new moons, and on the Sabbaths, in all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel: he shall prepare the messing up giving to God, and the meal giving to God, and the burnt giving to God, and the peace offerings, to create atonement for the house of Israel.
 18. God's like Yahweh: In the first month, in the day one of the month, you shall grab a young bull without blemish; and you shall cleanse the sanctuary.
 19. The priest shall grab of the blood of the messing up giving to God, and put it on the door posts of the house, and on the four corners of the ledge of the prayer spot, and on the posts of the gate of the inner court.
 20. So you shall do on the day seven of the month for everyone who errs, and for him who is simple: so you shall create atonement for the house.
 21. In the first month, in the fourteenth day of the month, you shall have the Passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten.
 22. On that day shall the prince prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bull for a messing up giving to God.
 23. The seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burnt giving to God to Yahweh, seven bulls and seven rams without blemish daily the seven days; and a male goat daily for a messing up giving to God.
 24. He shall prepare a meal giving to God, an ephah for a bull, and an ephah for a ram, and a hin of oil to an ephah.
 25. In the seventh month, in the fifteenth day of the month, in the feast, shall he do the like the seven days; according to the messing up giving to God, according to the burnt giving to God, and according to the meal giving to God, and according to the oil.

# Ezekiel Chapter 46

  1. God's like Yahweh: The gate of the inner court that looks toward the east shall be shut the six working days; but on the Sabbath day it shall be opened, and on the day of the new moon it shall be opened.
  2. The prince shall enter by the way of the porch of the gate outside, and shall stand by the post of the gate; and the priests shall prepare his burnt giving to God and his peace offerings, and he shall giving props at the threshold of the gate: then he shall slide forth; but the gate shall not be shut until the evening.
  3. The people of the land shall giving props at the door of that gate before Yahweh on the Sabbaths and on the new moons.
  4. The burnt giving to God that the prince shall offer to Yahweh shall be on the Sabbath day six lambs without blemish and a ram without blemish;
  5. and the meal giving to God shall be an ephah for the ram, and the meal giving to God for the lambs as he is able to hook it up, and a hin of oil to an ephah.
  6. On the day of the new moon it shall be a young bull without blemish, and six lambs, and a ram; they shall be without blemish:
  7. and he shall prepare a meal giving to God, an ephah for the bull, and an ephah for the ram, and for the lambs according as he is able, and a hin of oil to an ephah.
  8. When the prince shall enter, he shall slide in by the way of the porch of the gate, and he shall slide forth by its way.
  9. But when the people of the land shall come through before Yahweh in the appointed feasts, he who enters by the way of the north gate to giving props shall slide forth by the way of the south gate; and he who enters by the way of the south gate shall slide forth by the way of the north gate: he shall not return by the way of the gate by which he came in, but shall slide forth straight before him.
 10. The prince, when they slide in, shall slide in with of them; and when they slide out, he shall slide out.
 11. In the feasts and in the solemnities the meal giving to God shall be an ephah for a bull, and an ephah for a ram, and for the lambs as he is able to hook it up, and a hin of oil to an ephah.
 12. When the prince shall prepare a freewill giving to God, a burnt giving to God or peace offerings as a freewill giving to God to Yahweh, one shall open for him the gate that looks toward the east; and he shall prepare his burnt giving to God and his peace offerings, as he does on the Sabbath day: then he shall slide forth; and after his going forth one shall shut the gate.
 13. You shall prepare a lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt giving to God to Yahweh daily: morning by morning you shall prepare it.
 14. You shall prepare a meal giving to God with it morning by morning, the sixth part of an ephah, and the third part of a hin of oil, to moisten the fine flour; a meal giving to God to Yahweh continually by a perpetual ordinance.
 15. Thus shall they prepare the lamb, and the meal giving to God, and the oil, morning by morning, for a continual burnt giving to God.
 16. God's like Yahweh: If the prince hook it up a gift to any of his sons, it is his inheritance, it shall belong to his sons; it is their possession by inheritance.
 17. But if he hook it up of his inheritance a gift to one of his servants, it shall be his to the year of liberty; then it shall return to the prince; but as for his inheritance, it shall be for his sons.
 18. Moreover the prince shall not grab of the people’s inheritance, to thrust them out of their possession; he shall hook it up inheritance to his sons out of his own possession, that my people not be scattered every man from his possession.
 19. then he brought me through the entry, which was at the side of the gate, into the set apart rooms for the priests, which looked toward the north: and check this out, there was a place on the hinder part westward.
 20. He said to me, This is the place where the priests shall boil the trespass giving to God and the messing up giving to God, and where they shall bake the meal giving to God; that they not bring them forth into the outer court, to sanctify the people.
 21. then he brought me forth into the outer court, and caused me to pass by the four corners of the court; and check this out, in every corner of the court there was a court.
 22. In the four corners of the court there were courts enclosed, forty cubits long and thirty broad: these four in the corners were of one measure.
 23. there was a wall around in them, around the four, and boiling places were made under the walls all around.
 24. then he said to me, These are the boiling houses, where the ministers of the house shall boil the giving it up of the people.

# Ezekiel Chapter 47

  1. He brought me back to the door of the house; and check this out, waters issued out from under the threshold of the house eastward; (for the forefront of the house was toward the east;) and the waters came down from under, from the right side of the house, on the south of the prayer spot.
  2. then he brought me out by the way of the gate northward, and led me round by the way outside to the outer gate, by the way of the gate that looks toward the east; and check this out, there ran out waters on the right side.
  3. When the man went forth eastward with the line in his hand, he measured one thousand cubits, and he caused me to pass through the waters, waters that were to the ankles.
  4. Again he measured one thousand, and caused me to pass through the waters, waters that were to the knees. Again he measured one thousand, and caused me to pass through the waters, waters that were to the waist.
  5. Afterward he measured one thousand; and it was a river that I could not pass through; for the waters were risen, waters to swim in, a river that could not be passed through.
  6. He said to me, Son of man, have you seen this? then he brought me, and caused me to return to the bank of the river.
  7. now when I had returned, check this out, on the bank of the river were hella a lot trees on the one side and on the other.
  8. then he said to me, These waters issue forth toward the eastern region, and shall slide down into the Arabah; and they shall slide toward the sea; into the sea shall the waters slide which were made to issue forth; and the waters shall be healed.
  9. It shall happen, that every living creature which swarms, in every place where the rivers come through, shall live; and there shall be a hella major multitude of fish; for these waters have come through there, and the waters of the sea shall be healed, and everything shall live wherever the river comes.
 10. It shall happen, that fishermen shall stand by it: from En Gedi even to En Eglaim shall be a place for the spreading of nets; their fish shall be after their kinds, as the fish of the major sea, exceeding a lot.
 11. But the miry places of it, and its marshes, shall not be healed; they shall be given up to salt.
 12. By the river on its bank, on this side and on that side, shall grow every tree for food, whose leaf shall not wither, neither shall its fruit fail: it shall bring forth new fruit every month, cuz its waters issue out of the sanctuary; and its fruit shall be for food, and its leaf for healing.
 13. God's like Yahweh: This shall be the border, by which you shall divide the land for inheritance according to the twelve tribes of Israel: Joseph shall have two portions.
 14. You shall inherit it, one as well as another; for I swore to hook it up it to your fathers: and this land shall fall to you for inheritance.
 15. This shall be the border of the land: On the north side, from the major sea, by the way of Hethlon, to the entrance of Zedad;
 16. Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is between the border of Damascus and the border of Hamath; Hazer Hatticon, which is by the border of Hauran.
 17. The border from the sea, shall be Hazar Enon at the border of Damascus; and on the north northward is the border of Hamath. This is the north side.
 18. The east side, between Hauran and Damascus and Gilead, and the land of Israel, shall be the Jordan; from the north border to the east sea you shall measure. This is the east side.
 19. The south side southward shall be from Tamar as far as the waters of Meriboth Kadesh, to the brook of Egypt, to the major sea. This is the south side southward.
 20. The west side shall be the major sea, from the south border as far as over against the entrance of Hamath. This is the west side.
 21. So you shall divide this land to you according to the tribes of Israel.
 22. It shall happen, that you shall divide it by lot for an inheritance to you and to the aliens who live among you, who shall father children among you; and they shall be to you as the native-born among the children of Israel; they shall have inheritance with you among the tribes of Israel.
 23. It shall happen, that in what tribe the stranger lives, there you shall hook it up him his inheritance, says the boss Yahweh.

# Ezekiel Chapter 48

  1. now these are the names of the tribes: From the north end, beside the way of Hethlon to the entrance of Hamath, Hazar Enan at the border of Damascus, northward beside Hamath, (and they shall have their sides east and west), Dan, one portion.
  2. By the border of Dan, from the east side to the west side, Asher, one portion.
  3. By the border of Asher, from the east side even to the west side, Naphtali, one portion.
  4. By the border of Naphtali, from the east side to the west side, Manasseh, one portion.
  5. By the border of Manasseh, from the east side to the west side, Ephraim, one portion.
  6. By the border of Ephraim, from the east side even to the west side, Reuben, one portion.
  7. By the border of Reuben, from the east side to the west side, Judah, one portion.
  8. By the border of Judah, from the east side to the west side, shall be the giving to God which you shall offer, twenty-five thousand reeds in breadth, and in length as one of the portions, from the east side to the west side: and the sanctuary shall be in its midst.
  9. The giving to God that you shall offer to Yahweh shall be twenty-five thousand reeds in length, and ten thousand in breadth.
 10. For these, even for the priests, shall be the set apart giving to God: toward the north twenty-five thousand in length, and toward the west ten thousand in breadth, and toward the east ten thousand in breadth, and toward the south twenty-five thousand in length: and the sanctuary of Yahweh shall be in its midst.
 11. It shall be for the priests who are sanctified of the sons of Zadok, who have kept my instruction, who didn’t slide astray when the children of Israel went astray, as the Levites went astray.
 12. It shall be to them an giving to God from the giving to God of the land, a thing most set apart, by the border of the Levites.
 13. Answerable to the border of the priests, the Levites shall have twenty-five thousand in length, and ten thousand in breadth: all the length shall be twenty-five thousand, and the breadth ten thousand.
 14. They shall sell none of it, nor exchange it, nor shall the first fruits of the land be alienated; for it is set apart to Yahweh.
 15. The five thousand that are left in the breadth, in front of the twenty-five thousand, shall be for common use, for the city, for dwelling and for suburbs; and the city shall be in its midst.
 16. These shall be its measures: the north side four thousand and five hundred, and the south side four thousand and five hundred, and on the east side four thousand and five hundred, and the west side four thousand and five hundred.
 17. The city shall have suburbs: toward the north two hundred fifty, and toward the south two hundred fifty, and toward the east two hundred fifty, and toward the west two hundred fifty.
 18. The remainder in the length, answerable to the set apart giving to God, shall be ten thousand eastward, and ten thousand westward; and it shall be answerable to the set apart giving to God; and its increase shall be for food to those who labor in the city.
 19. Those who labor in the city, out of all the tribes of Israel, shall cultivate it.
 20. All the giving to God shall be twenty-five thousand by twenty-five thousand: you shall offer the set apart giving to God foursquare, with the possession of the city.
 21. The residue shall be for the prince, on the one side and on the other of the set apart giving to God and of the possession of the city; in front of the twenty-five thousand of the giving to God toward the east border, and westward in front of the twenty-five thousand toward the west border, answerable to the portions, it shall be for the prince: and the set apart giving to God and the sanctuary of the house shall be in its midst.
 22. Moreover from the possession of the Levites, and from the possession of the city, being in the midst of that which is the prince’s, between the border of Judah and the border of Benjamin, it shall be for the prince.
 23. As for the rest of the tribes: from the east side to the west side, Benjamin, one portion.
 24. By the border of Benjamin, from the east side to the west side, Simeon, one portion.
 25. By the border of Simeon, from the east side to the west side, Issachar, one portion.
 26. By the border of Issachar, from the east side to the west side, Zebulun, one portion.
 27. By the border of Zebulun, from the east side to the west side, Gad, one portion.
 28. By the border of Gad, at the south side southward, the border shall be even from Tamar to the waters of Meribath Kadesh, to the brook of Egypt, to the major sea.
 29. This is the land which you shall divide by lot to the tribes of Israel for inheritance, and these are their several portions, says the boss Yahweh.
 30. These are the exits of the city: On the north side four thousand and five hundred reeds by measure;
 31. and the gates of the city shall be after the names of the tribes of Israel, three gates northward: the gate of Reuben, one; the gate of Judah, one; the gate of Levi, one.
 32. At the east side four thousand and five hundred reeds, and three gates: even the gate of Joseph, one; the gate of Benjamin, one; the gate of Dan, one.
 33. At the south side four thousand and five hundred reeds by measure, and three gates: the gate of Simeon, one; the gate of Issachar, one; the gate of Zebulun, one.
 34. At the west side four thousand and five hundred reeds, with their three gates: the gate of Gad, one; the gate of Asher, one; the gate of Naphtali, one.
 35. It shall be eighteen thousand reeds around: and the name of the city from that day shall be, Yahweh is there.


EZRA
----

# Ezra Chapter 1

  1. now in the first year of Cyrus ruler of Persia, that the word of Yahweh by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Cyrus ruler of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his God's squad, and put it also in writing, saying,
  2. “Thus says Cyrus ruler of Persia, ‘Yahweh, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth; and he has commanded me to put together him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah.
  3. Whoever there is among you of all his people, may his God be with him, and let him slide up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and put together the house of Yahweh, the God of Israel (he is God), which is in Jerusalem.
  4. Whoever is left, in any place where he lives, let the men of his place help out him with silver, with gold, with goods, and with animals, besides the freewill giving to God for the house of God which is in Jerusalem.’”
  5. then the heads of fathers’ households of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests, and the Levites, even all whose spirit God had stirred to slide up rose up to put together the house of Yahweh which is in Jerusalem.
  6. All those who were around them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, and with animals, and with precious things, besides all that was willingly offered.
  7. Also Cyrus the ruler brought forth the vessels of the house of Yahweh, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought out of Jerusalem, and had put in the house of his gods;
  8. even those, Cyrus ruler of Persia brought out by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and numbered them to Sheshbazzar, the prince of Judah.
  9. This is the number of them: thirty platters of gold, one thousand platters of silver, twenty-nine knives,
 10. thirty bowls of gold, silver bowls of a second sort four hundred and ten, and other vessels one thousand.
 11. All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four hundred. Sheshbazzar brought all these up, when the captives were brought up from Babylon to Jerusalem.

# Ezra Chapter 2

  1. now these are the children of the province, who went up out of the captivity of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the ruler of Babylon had carried away to Babylon, and who returned to Jerusalem and Judah, everyone to his city;
  2. who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
  3. The children of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two.
  4. The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two.
  5. The children of Arah, seven hundred seventy-five.
  6. The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred twelve.
  7. The children of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
  8. The children of Zattu, nine hundred forty-five.
  9. The children of Zaccai, seven hundred sixty.
 10. The children of Bani, six hundred forty-two.
 11. The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty-three.
 12. The children of Azgad, one thousand two hundred twenty-two.
 13. The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-six.
 14. The children of Bigvai, two thousand fifty-six.
 15. The children of Adin, four hundred fifty-four.
 16. The children of Ater, of Hezekiah, ninety-eight.
 17. The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty-three.
 18. The children of Jorah, one hundred twelve.
 19. The children of Hashum, two hundred twenty-three.
 20. The children of Gibbar, ninety-five.
 21. The children of Bethlehem, one hundred twenty-three.
 22. The men of Netophah, fifty-six.
 23. The men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight.
 24. The children of Azmaveth, forty-two.
 25. The children of Kiriath Arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three.
 26. The children of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty-one.
 27. The men of Michmas, one hundred twenty-two.
 28. The men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred twenty-three.
 29. The children of Nebo, fifty-two.
 30. The children of Magbish, one hundred fifty-six.
 31. The children of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
 32. The children of Harim, three hundred twenty.
 33. The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-five.
 34. The children of Jericho, three hundred forty-five.
 35. The children of Senaah, three thousand six hundred thirty.
 36. The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three.
 37. The children of Immer, one thousand fifty-two.
 38. The children of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven.
 39. The children of Harim, one thousand seventeen.
 40. The Levites: the children of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the children of Hodaviah, seventy-four.
 41. The singers: the children of Asaph, one hundred twenty-eight.
 42. The children of the porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, in all one hundred thirty-nine.
 43. The Nethinim: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth,
 44. the children of Keros, the children of Siaha, the children of Padon,
 45. the children of Lebanah, the children of Hagabah, the children of Akkub,
 46. the children of Hagab, the children of Shamlai, the children of Hanan,
 47. the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, the children of Reaiah,
 48. the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, the children of Gazzam,
 49. the children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, the children of Besai,
 50. the children of Asnah, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephisim,
 51. the children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur,
 52. the children of Bazluth, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha,
 53. the children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Temah,
 54. the children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.
 55. The children of Solomon’s servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Hassophereth, the children of Peruda,
 56. the children of Jaalah, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel,
 57. the children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth Hazzebaim, the children of Ami.
 58. All the Nethinim, and the children of Solomon’s servants, were three hundred ninety-two.
 59. These were those who went up from Tel Melah, Tel Harsha, Cherub, Addan, and Immer; but they could not show their fathers’ houses, and their seed, whether they were of Israel:
 60. the children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred fifty-two.
 61. Of the children of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Hakkoz, the children of Barzillai, who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name.
 62. These sought their place among those who were registered by genealogy, but they were not found: so basically were they deemed polluted and put from the priesthood.
 63. The governor said to them, that they should not eat of the most set apart things, until there stood up a priest with Urim and with Thummim.
 64. The whole assembly together was forty-two thousand three hundred sixty,
 65. besides their male servants and their female servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven: and they had two hundred singing men and singing women.
 66. Their horses were seven hundred thirty-six; their mules, two hundred forty-five;
 67. their camels, four hundred thirty-five; their donkeys, six thousand seven hundred and twenty.
 68. Some of the heads of fathers’ households, when they came to the house of Yahweh which is in Jerusalem, offered willingly for the house of God to set it up in its place:
 69. they gave after their ability into the treasury of the work sixty-one thousand darics of gold, and five thousand minas of silver, and one hundred priests’ garments.
 70. So the priests, and the Levites, and some of the people, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinim, lived in their cities, and all Israel in their cities.

# Ezra Chapter 3

  1. When the seventh month had come through, and the children of Israel were in the cities, the people gathered themselves together as one man to Jerusalem.
  2. then stood up Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and his brothers the priests, and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and his brothers, and built the prayer spot of the God of Israel, to offer burnt offerings thereon, as it is written in the law of Moses the man of God.
  3. They set the prayer spot on its base; for fear was on them cuz of the peoples of the countries: and they offered burnt offerings thereon to Yahweh, even burnt offerings morning and evening.
  4. They kept the feast of tents, as it is written, and offered the daily burnt offerings by number, according to the ordinance, as the duty of every day required;
  5. and afterward the continual burnt giving to God, and the offerings of the new moons, and of all the set feasts of Yahweh that were consecrated, and of everyone who willingly offered a freewill giving to God to Yahweh.
  6. From the day one of the seventh month began they to offer burnt offerings to Yahweh: but the foundation of the God's house of Yahweh was not yet laid.
  7. They gave money also to the masons, and to the carpenters; and food, and drink, and oil, to them of Sidon, and to them of Tyre, to bring cedar trees from Lebanon to the sea, to Joppa, according to the grant that they had of Cyrus ruler of Persia.
  8. now in the second year of their coming to the house of God at Jerusalem, in the second month, began Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and the rest of their brothers the priests and the Levites, and all those who were come through out of the captivity to Jerusalem, and appointed the Levites, from twenty years old and upward, to have the oversight of the work of the house of Yahweh.
  9. then stood Jeshua with his sons and his brothers, Kadmiel and his sons, the sons of Judah, together, to have the oversight of the workmen in the house of God: the sons of Henadad, with their sons and their brothers the Levites.
 10. When the builders laid the foundation of the God's house of Yahweh, they set the priests in their clothing with trumpets, and the Levites the sons of Asaph with cymbals, to praise Yahweh, after the order of David ruler of Israel.
 11. They sang one to another in praising and giving thanks to Yahweh, “For he is fire, for his loving kindness endures forever toward Israel.” All the people shouted with a major shout, when they praised Yahweh, cuz the foundation of the house of Yahweh was laid.
 12. But a lot of the priests and Levites and heads of fathers’ households, the old men who had seen the first house, when the foundation of this house was laid before their eyes, wept with a loud voice; and a lot shouted aloud for joy:
 13. so that the people could not discern the noise of the shout of joy from the noise of the weeping of the people; for the people shouted with a loud shout, and the noise was heard afar off.

# Ezra Chapter 4

  1. now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the children of the captivity were building a God's house to Yahweh, the God of Israel;
  2. then they drew near to Zerubbabel, and to the heads of fathers’ households, and said to them, “Let us put together with you; for we seek your God, as you do; and we giving it up to him since the days of Esar Haddon ruler of Assyria, who brought us up here.”
  3. But Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and the rest of the heads of fathers’ households of Israel, said to them, “You have nothing to do with us in building a house to our God; but we ourselves together will put together to Yahweh, the God of Israel, as ruler Cyrus the ruler of Persia has commanded us.”
  4. then the people of the land weakened the hands of the people of Judah, and troubled them in building,
  5. and hired counselors against them, to frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus ruler of Persia, even until the reign of Darius ruler of Persia.
  6. In the reign of Ahasuerus, at the start of his reign, wrote they an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem.
  7. In the days of Artaxerxes wrote Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and the rest of his companions, to Artaxerxes ruler of Persia; and the writing of the letter was written in Syrian, and set forth in the Syrian language.
  8. Rehum the chancellor and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the ruler in this sort:
  9. then Rehum the chancellor, and Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their companions, the Dinaites, and the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Shushanchites, the Dehaites, the Elamites,
 10. and the rest of the nations whom the major and noble Osnappar brought over, and set in the city of Samaria, and in the rest of the country beyond the River, and so forth, wrote.
 11. This is the copy of the letter that they sent to Artaxerxes the ruler: Your servants the men beyond the River, and so forth.
 12. Be it known to the ruler, that the Jews who came up from you have come through to us to Jerusalem; they are building the rebellious and the trash city, and have finished the walls, and repaired the foundations.
 13. Be it known now to the ruler that if this city is built, and the walls finished, they will not pay tribute, custom, or toll, and in the end it will be hurtful to the kings.
 14. now cuz we eat the salt of the palace, and it is not appropriate for us to check it out the ruler’s dishonor, so basically have we sent and informed the ruler;
 15. that search may be made in the book of the records of your fathers: so you shall find in the book of the records, and get it that this city is a rebellious city, and hurtful to kings and provinces, and that they have moved sedition within the same of old time; for which cause was this city laid waste.
 16. We inform the ruler that, if this city be built, and the walls finished, by this means you shall have no portion beyond the River.
 17. then the ruler sent an answer to Rehum the chancellor, and to Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their companions who dwell in Samaria, and in the rest of the country beyond the River: Peace, and so forth.
 18. The letter which you sent to us has been plainly read before me.
 19. I decreed, and search has been made, and it is found that this city of old time has made insurrection against kings, and that rebellion and sedition have been made therein.
 20. there have been mighty kings also over Jerusalem, who have ruled over all the country beyond the River; and tribute, custom, and toll, was paid to them.
 21. create a decree now to cause these men to cease, and that this city not be built, until a decree shall be made by me.
 22. grab heed that you not be slack herein: why should damage grow to the hurt of the kings?
 23. then when the copy of ruler Artaxerxes’ letter was read before Rehum, and Shimshai the scribe, and their companions, they went in haste to Jerusalem to the Jews, and made them to cease by force and power.
 24. then ceased the work of the house of God which is at Jerusalem; and it ceased until the second year of the reign of Darius ruler of Persia.

# Ezra Chapter 5

  1. now the prophets, Haggai the God's messenger, and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem; in the name of the God of Israel they prophesied to them.
  2. then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and began to put together the house of God which is at Jerusalem; and with them were the prophets of God, helping them.
  3. At the same time came to them Tattenai, the governor beyond the River, and Shetharbozenai, and their companions, and said thus to them, “Who gave you a decree to put together this house, and to finish this wall?”
  4. then we told them in this way, what the names of the men were who were making this building.
  5. But the eye of their God was on the elders of the Jews, and they did not create them cease, until the matter should come through to Darius, and then answer should be returned by letter concerning it.
  6. The copy of the letter that Tattenai, the governor beyond the River, and Shetharbozenai, and his companions the Apharsachites, who were beyond the River, sent to Darius the ruler;
  7. they sent a letter to him, in which was written thus: To Darius the ruler, all peace.
  8. Be it known to the ruler, that we went into the province of Judah, to the house of the major God, which is built with major stones, and timber is laid in the walls; and this work goes on with diligence and prospers in their hands.
  9. then we asked those elders, and said to them thus, “Who gave you a decree to put together this house, and to finish this wall?”
 10. We asked them their names also, to inform you that we might write the names of the men who were at their head.
 11. Thus they returned us answer, saying, “We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth, and are building the house that was built these a lot years ago, which a major ruler of Israel built and finished.
 12. But after that our fathers had provoked the God of heaven to wrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house, and carried the people away into Babylon.
 13. But in the first year of Cyrus ruler of Babylon, Cyrus the ruler made a decree to put together this house of God.
 14. The gold and silver vessels also of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the God's house that was in Jerusalem, and brought into the God's house of Babylon, those Cyrus the ruler took out of the God's house of Babylon, and they were delivered to one whose name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor;
 15. and he said to him, ‘grab these vessels, slide, put them in the God's house that is in Jerusalem, and let the house of God be built in its place.’
 16. then the same Sheshbazzar came, and laid the foundations of the house of God which is in Jerusalem: and since that time even until now has it been in building, and yet it is not completed.
 17. now so basically, if it seem fire to the ruler, let a search be made in the ruler’s treasure house, which is there at Babylon, whether it be so, that a decree was made of Cyrus the ruler to put together this house of God at Jerusalem; and let the ruler send his pleasure to us concerning this matter.”

# Ezra Chapter 6

  1. then Darius the ruler made a decree, and search was made in the house of the archives, where the treasures were laid up in Babylon.
  2. there was found at Achmetha, in the palace that is in the province of Media, a scroll, and therein was thus written for a record:
  3. In the first year of Cyrus the ruler, Cyrus the ruler made a decree: Concerning the house of God at Jerusalem, let the house be built, the place where they offer sacrifices, and let its foundations be strongly laid; its height sixty cubits, and its breadth sixty cubits;
  4. with three courses of major stones, and a course of new timber: and let the expenses be given out of the ruler’s house.
  5. Also let the gold and silver vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took forth out of the God's house which is at Jerusalem, and brought to Babylon, be restored, and brought again to the God's house which is at Jerusalem, everyone to its place; and you shall put them in the house of God.
  6. now so basically, Tattenai, governor beyond the River, Shetharbozenai, and your companions the Apharsachites, who are beyond the River, you must stay far from there.
  7. Leave the work of this house of God alone; let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews put together this house of God in its place.
  8. Moreover I create a decree what you shall do to these elders of the Jews for the building of this house of God: that of the ruler’s goods, even of the tribute beyond the River, expenses be given with all diligence to these men, that they be not hindered.
  9. That which they have need of, both young bulls, and rams, and lambs, for burnt offerings to the God of heaven; also wheat, salt, wine, and oil, according to the word of the priests who are at Jerusalem, let it be given them day by day without fail;
 10. that they may offer sacrifices of pleasant aroma to the God of heaven, and pray for the life of the ruler, and of his sons.
 11. Also I have made a decree, that whoever shall alter this word, let a beam be pulled out from his house, and let him be lifted up and fastened thereon; and let his house be made a dunghill for this:
 12. and the God who has caused his name to dwell there overthrow all kings and peoples who shall put forth their hand to alter the same, to tear down this house of God which is at Jerusalem. I Darius have made a decree; let it be done with all diligence.
 13. then Tattenai, the governor beyond the River, Shetharbozenai, and their companions, cuz Darius the ruler had sent a decree, did accordingly with all diligence.
 14. The elders of the Jews built and prospered, through the prophesying of Haggai the God's messenger and Zechariah the son of Iddo. They built and finished it, according to the commandment of the God of Israel, and according to the decree of Cyrus, and Darius, and Artaxerxes ruler of Persia.
 15. This house was finished on the day three of the month Adar, which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the ruler.
 16. The children of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the rest of the children of the captivity, kept the dedication of this house of God with joy.
 17. They offered at the dedication of this house of God one hundred bulls, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs; and for a messing up giving to God for all Israel, twelve male goats, according to the number of the tribes of Israel.
 18. They set the priests in their divisions, and the Levites in their courses, for the service of God, which is at Jerusalem; as it is written in the book of Moses.
 19. The children of the captivity kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month.
 20. For the priests and the Levites had purified themselves together; all of them were pure: and they killed the Passover for all the children of the captivity, and for their brothers the priests, and for themselves.
 21. The children of Israel who had come through again out of the captivity, and all such as had separated themselves to them from the filthiness of the nations of the land, to seek Yahweh, the God of Israel, ate,
 22. and kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy: for Yahweh had made them joyful, and had turned the heart of the ruler of Assyria to them, to strengthen their hands in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel.

# Ezra Chapter 7

  1. now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes ruler of Persia, Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah,
  2. the son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub,
  3. the son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth,
  4. the son of Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki,
  5. the son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chief priest;
  6. this Ezra went up from Babylon: and he was a ready scribe in the law of Moses, which Yahweh, the God of Israel, had given; and the ruler granted him all his request, according to the hand of Yahweh his God on him.
  7. there went up some of the children of Israel, and of the priests, and the Levites, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinim, to Jerusalem, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the ruler.
  8. He came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the ruler.
  9. For on the day one of the first month began he to slide up from Babylon; and on the day one of the fifth month came he to Jerusalem, according to the fire hand of his God on him.
 10. For Ezra had set his heart to seek the law of Yahweh, and to do it, and to drop knowledge in Israel statutes and ordinances.
 11. now this is the copy of the letter that the ruler Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, even the scribe of the words of the commandments of Yahweh, and of his statutes to Israel:
 12. Artaxerxes, ruler of kings, to Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, perfect and so forth.
 13. I create a decree, that all those of the people of Israel, and their priests and the Levites, in my realm, who are minded of their own free will to slide to Jerusalem, slide with you.
 14. cuz you are sent of the ruler and his seven counselors, to inquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem, according to the law of your God which is in your hand,
 15. and to carry the silver and gold, which the ruler and his counselors have freely offered to the God of Israel, whose habitation is in Jerusalem,
 16. and all the silver and gold that you shall find in all the province of Babylon, with the freewill giving to God of the people, and of the priests, giving to God willingly for the house of their God which is in Jerusalem;
 17. so basically you shall with all diligence buy with this money bulls, rams, lambs, with their meal offerings and their drink offerings, and shall offer them on the prayer spot of the house of your God which is in Jerusalem.
 18. Whatever shall seem fire to you and to your brothers to do with the rest of the silver and the gold, do that after the will of your God.
 19. The vessels that are given to you for the service of the house of your God, deliver before the God of Jerusalem.
 20. Whatever more shall be needful for the house of your God, which you shall have occasion to bestow, bestow it out of the ruler’s treasure house.
 21. I, even I Artaxerxes the ruler, do create a decree to all the treasurers who are beyond the River, that whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, shall require of you, it be done with all diligence,
 22. to one hundred talents of silver, and to one hundred measures of wheat, and to one hundred baths of wine, and to one hundred baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how much.
 23. Whatever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be done exactly for the house of the God of heaven; for why should there be wrath against the realm of the ruler and his sons?
 24. Also we inform you, that touching any of the priests and Levites, the singers, porters, Nethinim, or servants of this house of God, it shall not be lawful to impose tribute, custom, or toll, on them.
 25. You, Ezra, after the wisdom of your God who is in your hand, appoint magistrates and judges, who may judge all the people who are beyond the River, all such as get it the laws of your God; and drop knowledge him who doesn’t get it them.
 26. Whoever will not do the law of your God, and the law of the ruler, let judgment be executed on him with all diligence, whether it be to death, or to banishment, or to confiscation of goods, or to imprisonment.
 27. blessed up be Yahweh, the God of our fathers, who has put such a thing as this in the ruler’s heart, to beautify the house of Yahweh which is in Jerusalem;
 28. and has extended loving kindness to me before the ruler, and his counselors, and before all the ruler’s mighty princes. I was strengthened according to the hand of Yahweh my God on me, and I gathered together out of Israel chief men to slide up with me.

# Ezra Chapter 8

  1. now these are the heads of their fathers’ households, and this is the genealogy of those who went up with me from Babylon, in the reign of Artaxerxes the ruler:
  2. Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom. Of the sons of Ithamar, Daniel. Of the sons of David, Hattush.
  3. Of the sons of Shecaniah, of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah; and with him were reckoned by genealogy of the males one hundred fifty.
  4. Of the sons of Pahathmoab, Eliehoenai the son of Zerahiah; and with him two hundred males.
  5. Of the sons of Shecaniah, the son of Jahaziel; and with him three hundred males.
  6. Of the sons of Adin, Ebed the son of Jonathan; and with him fifty males.
  7. Of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah; and with him seventy males.
  8. Of the sons of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the son of Michael; and with him eighty males.
  9. Of the sons of Joab, Obadiah the son of Jehiel; and with him two hundred and eighteen males.
 10. Of the sons of Shelomith, the son of Josiphiah; and with him one hundred sixty males.
 11. Of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah the son of Bebai; and with him twenty-eight males.
 12. Of the sons of Azgad, Johanan the son of Hakkatan; and with him one hundred ten males.
 13. Of the sons of Adonikam, who were the last; and these are their names: Eliphelet, Jeuel, and Shemaiah; and with them sixty males.
 14. Of the sons of Bigvai, Uthai and Zabbud; and with them seventy males.
 15. I gathered them together to the river that runs to Ahava; and there we encamped three days: and I viewed the people, and the priests, and found there none of the sons of Levi.
 16. then sent I for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, and for Elnathan, and for Jarib, and for Elnathan, and for Nathan, and for Zechariah, and for Meshullam, chief men; also for Joiarib, and for Elnathan, who were teachers.
 17. I sent them forth to Iddo the chief at the place Casiphia; and I told them what they should tell Iddo, and his brothers the Nethinim, at the place Casiphia, that they should bring to us ministers for the house of our God.
 18. According to the fire hand of our God on us they brought us a man of discretion, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son of Israel; and Sherebiah, with his sons and his brothers, eighteen;
 19. and Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, his brothers and their sons, twenty;
 20. and of the Nethinim, whom David and the princes had given for the service of the Levites, two hundred and twenty Nethinim: all of them were mentioned by name.
 21. then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river Ahava, that we might humble ourselves before our God, to seek of him a straight way for us, and for our little ones, and for all our substance.
 22. For I was ashamed to ask of the ruler a band of soldiers and horsemen to help out us against the enemy in the way, cuz we had spoken to the ruler, saying, “The hand of our God is on all those who seek him, for fire; but his power and his wrath is against all those who forsake him.”
 23. So we fasted and begged our God for this: and he was entreated of us.
 24. then I set apart twelve of the chiefs of the priests, even Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their brothers with them,
 25. and weighed to them the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, even the giving to God for the house of our God, which the ruler, and his counselors, and his princes, and all Israel there present, had offered:
 26. I weighed into their hand six hundred fifty talents of silver, and silver vessels one hundred talents; of gold one hundred talents;
 27. and twenty bowls of gold, of one thousand darics; and two vessels of fine bright brass, precious as gold.
 28. I said to them, “You are set apart to Yahweh, and the vessels are set apart; and the silver and the gold are a freewill giving to God to Yahweh, the God of your fathers.
 29. Watch, and keep them, until you weigh them before the chiefs of the priests and the Levites, and the princes of the fathers’ households of Israel, at Jerusalem, in the rooms of the house of Yahweh.”
 30. So the priests and the Levites received the weight of the silver and the gold, and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem to the house of our God.
 31. then we departed from the river Ahava on the twelfth day of the first month, to slide to Jerusalem: and the hand of our God was on us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy and the bandit by the way.
 32. We came to Jerusalem, and stayed there three days.
 33. On the day four the silver and the gold and the vessels were weighed in the house of our God into the hand of Meremoth the son of Uriah the priest; and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas; and with them was Jozabad the son of Jeshua, and Noadiah the son of Binnui, the Levite;
 34. the whole by number and by weight: and all the weight was written at that time.
 35. The children of the captivity, who had come through out of exile, offered burnt offerings to the God of Israel, twelve bulls for all Israel, ninety-six rams, seventy-seven lambs, and twelve male goats for a messing up giving to God: all this was a burnt giving to God to Yahweh.
 36. They delivered the ruler’s commissions to the ruler’s satraps, and to the governors beyond the River: and they furthered the people and the house of God.

# Ezra Chapter 9

  1. now when these things were done, the princes drew near to me, saying, “The people of Israel, and the priests and the Levites, have not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands, following their abominations, even those of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites.
  2. For they have taken of their daughters for themselves and for their sons, so that the set apart seed have mixed themselves with the peoples of the lands. Yes, the hand of the princes and rulers has been chief in this trespass.”
  3. When I heard this thing, I tore my garment and my robe, and plucked off the hair of my head and of my beard, and sat down confounded.
  4. then were assembled to me everyone who trembled at the words of the God of Israel, cuz of their trespass of the captivity; and I sat confounded until the evening giving to God.
  5. At the evening giving to God I arose up from my humiliation, even with my garment and my robe torn; and I fell on my knees, and spread out my hands to Yahweh my God;
  6. and I said, “My God, I am ashamed and blush to lift up my face to you, my God; for our iniquities have increased over our head, and our guiltiness has grown up to the heavens.
  7. Since the days of our fathers we have been exceeding guilty to this day; and for our iniquities we, our kings, and our priests, have been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, to plunder, and to confusion of face, as it is this day.
  8. now for a little moment God's show love has been shown from Yahweh our God, to leave us a remnant to escape, and to hook it up us a nail in his set apart place, that our God may lighten our eyes, and hook it up us a little reviving in our bondage.
  9. For we are bondservants; yet our God has not forsaken us in our bondage, but has extended loving kindness to us in the sight of the kings of Persia, to hook it up us a reviving, to set up the house of our God, and to repair its ruins, and to hook it up us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem.
 10. “now, our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken your commandments,
 11. which you have commanded by your servants the prophets, saying, ‘The land, to which you slide to possess it, is an unclean land through the uncleanness of the peoples of the lands, through their abominations, which have filled it from one end to another with their filthiness.
 12. now so basically don’t hook it up your daughters to their sons, neither grab their daughters to your sons, nor seek their peace or their prosperity forever; that you may be built different, and eat the fire of the land, and leave it for an inheritance to your children forever.’
 13. “After all that has come through on us for our evil deeds, and for our major guilt, since you, our God, have punished us less than our iniquities deserve, and have given us such a remnant,
 14. shall we again break your commandments, and join in affinity with the peoples that do these abominations? Wouldn’t you be mad salty with us until you had consumed us, so that there should be no remnant, nor any to escape?
 15. Yahweh, the God of Israel, you are doing what's right; for we are left a remnant that has escaped, as it is this day. check this out, we are before you in our guiltiness; for none can stand before you cuz of this.”

# Ezra Chapter 10

  1. now while Ezra prayed and made confession, weeping and casting himself down before the house of God, there was gathered together to him out of Israel a hella major assembly of men and women and children; for the people wept hella bitterly.
  2. Shecaniah the son of Jehiel, one of the sons of Elam, answered Ezra, “We have trespassed against our God, and have married foreign women of the peoples of the land. Yet now there is hope for Israel concerning this thing.
  3. now so basically let us create a God's promise with our God to put away all the wives, and such as are born of them, according to the counsel of my boss, and of those who tremble at the commandment of our God. Let it be done according to the law.
  4. Arise; for the matter belongs to you, and we are with you. Be courageous, and do it.”
  5. then Ezra arose, and made the chiefs of the priests, the Levites, and all Israel, to swear that they would do according to this word. So they swore.
  6. then Ezra rose up from before the house of God, and went into the room of Jehohanan the son of Eliashib: and when he came there, he ate no bread, nor drank water; for he mourned cuz of their trespass of the captivity.
  7. They made proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem to all the children of the captivity, that they should gather themselves together to Jerusalem;
  8. and that whoever didn’t come through within three days, according to the counsel of the princes and the elders, all his substance should be forfeited, and himself separated from the assembly of the captivity.
  9. then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered themselves together to Jerusalem within the three days; it was the ninth month, on the twentieth day of the month: and all the people sat in the broad place before the house of God, trembling cuz of this matter, and for the major rain.
 10. Ezra the priest stood up, and said to them, “You have trespassed, and have married foreign women, to increase the guilt of Israel.
 11. now so basically create confession to Yahweh, the God of your fathers, and do his pleasure; and separate yourselves from the peoples of the land, and from the foreign women.”
 12. then all the assembly answered with a loud voice, “As you have said concerning us, so must we do.
 13. But the people are a lot, and it is a time of much rain, and we are not able to stand outside; neither is this a work of one day or two; for we have greatly transgressed in this matter.
 14. Let now our princes be appointed for all the assembly, and let all those who are in our cities who have married foreign women come through at appointed times, and with them the elders of every city, and its judges, until the fierce wrath of our God be turned from us, until this matter is resolved.”
 15. Only Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahzeiah the son of Tikvah stood up against this; and Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite helped them.
 16. The children of the captivity did so. Ezra the priest, with certain heads of fathers’ households, after their fathers’ houses, and all of them by their names, were set apart; and they sat down in the day one of the tenth month to examine the matter.
 17. They made an end with all the men who had married foreign women by the day one of the first month.
 18. Among the sons of the priests there were found who had married foreign women: of the sons of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and his brothers, Maaseiah, and Eliezer, and Jarib, and Gedaliah.
 19. They gave their hand that they would put away their wives; and being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their guilt.
 20. Of the sons of Immer: Hanani and Zebadiah.
 21. Of the sons of Harim: Maaseiah, and Elijah, and Shemaiah, and Jehiel, and Uzziah.
 22. Of the sons of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad, and Elasah.
 23. Of the Levites: Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah (the same is Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.
 24. Of the singers: Eliashib. Of the porters: Shallum, and Telem, and Uri.
 25. Of Israel: Of the sons of Parosh: Ramiah, and Izziah, and Malchijah, and Mijamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benaiah.
 26. Of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, and Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Elijah.
 27. Of the sons of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, and Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.
 28. Of the sons of Bebai: Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, Athlai.
 29. Of the sons of Bani: Meshullam, Malluch, and Adaiah, Jashub, and Sheal, Jeremoth.
 30. Of the sons of Pahathmoab: Adna, and Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, and Binnui, and Manasseh.
 31. Of the sons of Harim: Eliezer, Isshijah, Malchijah, Shemaiah, Shimeon,
 32. Benjamin, Malluch, Shemariah.
 33. Of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, Shimei.
 34. Of the sons of Bani: Maadai, Amram, and Uel,
 35. Benaiah, Bedeiah, Cheluhi,
 36. Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib,
 37. Mattaniah, Mattenai, and Jaasu,
 38. and Bani, and Binnui, Shimei,
 39. and Shelemiah, and Nathan, and Adaiah,
 40. Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,
 41. Azarel, and Shelemiah, Shemariah,
 42. Shallum, Amariah, Joseph.
 43. Of the sons of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Iddo, and Joel, Benaiah.
 44. All these had taken foreign wives; and some of them had wives by whom they had children.


GENESIS
-------

# Genesis Chapter 1

  1. at the start God created the heavens and the earth.
  2. now the earth was formless and empty. Darkness was on the surface of the deep. God’s Spirit was hovering over the surface of the waters.
  3. God was like, “Let there be light,” and there was light.
  4. God checked out the light, and checked out that it was fire. God divided the light from the darkness.
  5. God called the light “day,” and the darkness he called “night.” there was evening and there was morning, one day.
  6. God was like, “Let there be an expanse in the middle of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.”
  7. God made the expanse, and divided the waters which were under the expanse from the waters which were above the expanse; and that's what happened.
  8. God called the expanse “sky.” there was evening and there was morning, a day two.
  9. God was like, “Let the waters under the sky be gathered together to one place, and let the dry land appear;” and that's what happened.
 10. God called the dry land “earth,” and the gathering together of the waters he called “seas.” God checked out that it was fire.
 11. God was like, “Let the earth yield grass, herbs yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit after their kind, with its seed in it, on the earth;” and that's what happened.
 12. The earth yielded grass, herbs yielding seed after their kind, and trees bearing fruit, with its seed in it, after their kind; and God checked out that it was fire.
 13. there was evening and there was morning, a day three.
 14. God was like, “Let there be lights in the expanse of sky to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days and years;
 15. and let them be for lights in the expanse of sky to hook it up light on the earth;” and that's what happened.
 16. God made the two major lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. He also made the stars.
 17. God set them in the expanse of sky to hook it up light to the earth,
 18. and to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness. God checked out that it was fire.
 19. there was evening and there was morning, a day four.
 20. God was like, “Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth in the open expanse of sky.”
 21. God created the large sea creatures, and every living creature that moves, with which the waters swarmed, after their kind, and every winged bird after its kind. God checked out that it was fire.
 22. God blessed up them, saying, “Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth.”
 23. there was evening and there was morning, a day five.
 24. God was like, “Let the earth produce living creatures after their kind, livestock, creeping things, and animals of the earth after their kind;” and that's what happened.
 25. God made the animals of the earth after their kind, and the livestock after their kind, and everything that creeps on the ground after its kind. God checked out that it was fire.
 26. God was like, “Let us create man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the sky, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth.”
 27. God created man in his own image. In God’s image he created him; male and female he created them.
 28. God blessed up them. God was like to them, “Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the sky, and over every living thing that moves on the earth.”
 29. God was like, “check this out, I have given you every herb yielding seed, which is on the surface of all the earth, and every tree, which bears fruit yielding seed. It will be your food.
 30. To every animal of the earth, and to every bird of the sky, and to everything that creeps on the earth, in which there is life, I have given every green herb for food;” and that's what happened.
 31. God checked out everything that he had made, and, check this out, it was hella fire. there was evening and there was morning, a day six.

# Genesis Chapter 2

  1. The heavens and the earth were finished, and all their vast array.
  2. On the day seven God finished his work which he had made; and he rested on the day seven from all his work which he had made.
  3. God blessed up the day seven, and made it set apart, cuz he rested in it from all his work which he had created and made.
  4. This is the history of the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that Yahweh God made the earth and the heavens.
  5. No plant of the field was yet in the earth, and no herb of the field had yet sprung up; for Yahweh God had not caused it to rain on the earth. there was not a man to till the ground,
  6. but a mist went up from the earth, and watered the whole surface of the ground.
  7. Yahweh God formed man from the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.
  8. Yahweh God planted a garden eastward, in Eden, and there he put the man whom he had formed.
  9. Out of the ground Yahweh God made every tree to grow that is pleasant to the sight, and fire for food; the tree of life also in the middle of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of fire and evil.
 10. A river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from there it was parted, and became four heads.
 11. The name of the first is Pishon: this is the one which flows through the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold;
 12. and the gold of that land is fire. there is aromatic resin and the onyx stone.
 13. The name of the second river is Gihon: the same river that flows through the whole land of Cush.
 14. The name of the third river is Hiddekel: this is the one which flows in front of Assyria. The fourth river is the Euphrates.
 15. Yahweh God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it.
 16. Yahweh God commanded the man, saying, “Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat;
 17. but of the tree of the knowledge of fire and evil, you shall not eat of it; for in the day that you eat of it you will surely die.”
 18. Yahweh God was like, “It is not fire that the man should be alone; I will create him a helper suitable for him.”
 19. Out of the ground Yahweh God formed every animal of the field, and every bird of the sky, and brought them to the man to check it out what he would call them. Whatever the man called every living creature, that was its name.
 20. The man gave names to all livestock, and to the birds of the sky, and to every animal of the field; but for man there was not found a helper suitable for him.
 21. Yahweh God caused a deep sleep to fall on the man, and he slept; and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh in its place.
 22. He made the rib, which Yahweh God had taken from the man, into a woman, and brought her to the man.
 23. The man said, “This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. She will be called ‘woman,’ cuz she was taken out of Man.”
 24. so basically a man will leave his father and his mother, and will join with his wife, and they will be one flesh.
 25. They were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.

# Genesis Chapter 3

  1. now the serpent was more subtle than any animal of the field which Yahweh God had made. He said to the woman, “Has God fr fr said, ‘You shall not eat of any tree of the garden?’”
  2. The woman said to the serpent, “Of the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat,
  3. but of the fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden, God has said, ‘You shall not eat of it, neither shall you touch it, lest you die.’”
  4. The serpent said to the woman, “You won’t surely die,
  5. for God knows that in the day you eat it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing fire and evil.”
  6. When the woman checked out that the tree was fire for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to create one smart, she took of its fruit, and ate; and she gave some to her husband with her, and he ate.
  7. The eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked. They sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons.
  8. They heard the voice of Yahweh God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of Yahweh God among the trees of the garden.
  9. Yahweh God called to the man, and said to him, “Where are you?”
 10. The man said, “I heard your voice in the garden, and I was scared, cuz I was naked; and I hid myself.”
 11. God was like, “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from?”
 12. The man said, “The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I ate.”
 13. Yahweh God was like to the woman, “What is this you have done?” The woman said, “The serpent deceived me, and I ate.”
 14. Yahweh God was like to the serpent, “cuz you have done this, you are cursed above all livestock, and above every animal of the field. On your belly you shall slide, and you shall eat dust all the days of your life.
 15. I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He will bruise your head, and you will bruise his heel.”
 16. To the woman he said, “I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth. In pain you will bear children. Your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you.”
 17. To Adam he said, “cuz you have listened to your wife’s voice, and have eaten of the tree, of which I commanded you, saying, ‘You shall not eat of it,’ cursed is the ground for your sake. In toil you will eat of it all the days of your life.
 18. It will yield thorns and thistles to you; and you will eat the herb of the field.
 19. By the sweat of your face will you eat bread until you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken. For you are dust, and to dust you shall return.”
 20. The man called his wife Eve, cuz she was the mother of all living.
 21. Yahweh God made coats of skins for Adam and for his wife, and clothed them.
 22. Yahweh God was like, “check this out, the man has become like one of us, knowing fire and evil. now, lest he reach out his hand, and also grab of the tree of life, and eat, and live forever...”
 23. so basically Yahweh God sent him out from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from which he was taken.
 24. So he drove out the man; and he placed Cherubs at the east of the garden of Eden, and the flame of a sword which turned every way, to guard the way to the tree of life.

# Genesis Chapter 4

  1. The man knew Eve his wife. She conceived, and gave birth to Cain, and said, “I have gotten a man with Yahweh’s help out.”
  2. Again she gave birth, to Cain’s brother Abel. Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.
  3. As time passed, it happened that Cain brought an giving to God to Yahweh from the fruit of the ground.
  4. Abel also brought some of the firstborn of his flock and of its fat. Yahweh respected Abel and his giving to God,
  5. but he didn’t respect Cain and his giving to God. Cain was hella mad salty, and the expression on his face fell.
  6. Yahweh said to Cain, “Why are you mad salty? Why has the expression of your face fallen?
  7. If you do well, will it not be lifted up? If you don’t do well, messing up crouches at the door. Its desire is for you, but you are to rule over it.”
  8. Cain said to Abel, his brother, “Let’s slide into the field.” It happened when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and killed him.
  9. Yahweh said to Cain, “Where is Abel, your brother?” He said, “I don’t get it. Am I my brother’s keeper?”
 10. Yahweh said, “What have you done? The voice of your brother’s blood cries to me from the ground.
 11. now you are cursed cuz of the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother’s blood from your hand.
 12. From now on, when you till the ground, it won’t yield its strength to you. You shall be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth.”
 13. Cain said to Yahweh, “My punishment is greater than I can bear.
 14. check this out, you have driven me out this day from the surface of the ground. I will be hidden from your face, and I will be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth. It will happen that whoever finds me will kill me.”
 15. Yahweh said to him, “so basically whoever slays Cain, vengeance will be taken on him sevenfold.” Yahweh appointed a sign for Cain, lest any finding him should strike him.
 16. Cain went out from Yahweh’s presence, and lived in the land of Nod, east of Eden.
 17. Cain knew his wife. She conceived, and gave birth to Enoch. He built a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch.
 18. To Enoch was born Irad. Irad became the father of Mehujael. Mehujael became the father of Methushael. Methushael became the father of Lamech.
 19. Lamech took two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah.
 20. Adah gave birth to Jabal, who was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock.
 21. His brother’s name was Jubal, who was the father of all who handle the harp and pipe.
 22. Zillah also gave birth to Tubal Cain, the forger of every cutting instrument of brass and iron. Tubal Cain’s sister was Naamah.
 23. Lamech said to his wives, “Adah and Zillah, hear my voice. You wives of Lamech, listen up to my speech, for I have slain a man for wounding me, a young man for bruising me.
 24. If Cain will be avenged seven times, deadass Lamech seventy-seven times.”
 25. Adam knew his wife again. She gave birth to a son, and named him Seth, “for God has appointed me another child instead of Abel, for Cain killed him.”
 26. there was also born a son to Seth, and he named him Enosh. then men began to call on Yahweh’s name.

# Genesis Chapter 5

  1. This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, he made him in God’s likeness.
  2. He created them male and female, and blessed up them, and called their name “Adam,” in the day when they were created.
  3. Adam lived one hundred thirty years, and became the father of a son in his own likeness, after his image, and named him Seth.
  4. The days of Adam after he became the father of Seth were eight hundred years, and he became the father of sons and daughters.
  5. All the days that Adam lived were nine hundred thirty years, then he died.
  6. Seth lived one hundred five years, and became the father of Enosh.
  7. Seth lived after he became the father of Enosh eight hundred seven years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
  8. All the days of Seth were nine hundred twelve years, then he died.
  9. Enosh lived ninety years, and became the father of Kenan.
 10. Enosh lived after he became the father of Kenan, eight hundred fifteen years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 11. All the days of Enosh were nine hundred five years, then he died.
 12. Kenan lived seventy years, and became the father of Mahalalel.
 13. Kenan lived after he became the father of Mahalalel eight hundred forty years, and became the father of sons and daughters
 14. and all the days of Kenan were nine hundred ten years, then he died.
 15. Mahalalel lived sixty-five years, and became the father of Jared.
 16. Mahalalel lived after he became the father of Jared eight hundred thirty years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 17. All the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred ninety-five years, then he died.
 18. Jared lived one hundred sixty-two years, and became the father of Enoch.
 19. Jared lived after he became the father of Enoch eight hundred years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 20. All the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty-two years, then he died.
 21. Enoch lived sixty-five years, and became the father of Methuselah.
 22. Enoch walked with God after he became the father of Methuselah three hundred years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 23. All the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty-five years.
 24. Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him.
 25. Methuselah lived one hundred eighty-seven years, and became the father of Lamech.
 26. Methuselah lived after he became the father of Lamech seven hundred eighty-two years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 27. All the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty-nine years, then he died.
 28. Lamech lived one hundred eighty-two years, and became the father of a son,
 29. and he named him Noah, saying, “This same will comfort us in our work and in the toil of our hands, cuz of the ground which Yahweh has cursed.”
 30. Lamech lived after he became the father of Noah five hundred ninety-five years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 31. All the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy-seven years, then he died.
 32. Noah was five hundred years old, and Noah became the father of Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

# Genesis Chapter 6

  1. It happened, when men began to multiply on the surface of the ground, and daughters were born to them,
  2. that God’s sons checked out that men’s daughters were snatched, and they took for themselves wives of all that they chose.
  3. Yahweh said, “My Spirit will not strive with man forever, cuz he also is flesh; yet will his days be one hundred twenty years.”
  4. The Nephilim were in the earth in those days, and also after that, when God’s sons came in to men’s daughters. They bore children to them. Those were the mighty men who were of old, men of renown.
  5. Yahweh checked out that the wickedness of man was major in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.
  6. Yahweh was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him in his heart.
  7. Yahweh said, “I will tear down man whom I have created from the surface of the ground; man, along with animals, creeping things, and birds of the sky; for I am sorry that I have made them.”
  8. But Noah found favor in Yahweh’s eyes.
  9. This is the history of the generations of Noah. Noah was a doing what's right man, blameless among the people of his time. Noah walked with God.
 10. Noah became the father of three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
 11. The earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.
 12. God checked out the earth, and checked out that it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way on the earth.
 13. God was like to Noah, “The end of all flesh has come through before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them. check this out, I will tear down them with the earth.
 14. create a ship of gopher wood. You shall create rooms in the ship, and shall seal it inside and outside with pitch.
 15. This is how you shall create it. The length of the ship will be three hundred cubits, its breadth fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits.
 16. You shall create a roof in the ship, and you shall finish it to a cubit upward. You shall set the door of the ship in its side. You shall create it with lower, second, and third levels.
 17. I, even I, do bring the flood of waters on this earth, to tear down all flesh having the breath of life from under the sky. Everything that is in the earth will die.
 18. But I will establish my God's promise with you. You shall come through into the ship, you, your sons, your wife, and your sons’ wives with you.
 19. Of every living thing of all flesh, you shall bring two of every sort into the ship, to keep them alive with you. They shall be male and female.
 20. Of the birds after their kind, of the livestock after their kind, of every creeping thing of the ground after its kind, two of every sort shall come through to you, to keep them alive.
 21. grab with you of all food that is eaten, and gather it to yourself; and it will be for food for you, and for them.”
 22. Thus Noah did. According to all that God commanded him, so he did.

# Genesis Chapter 7

  1. Yahweh said to Noah, “come through with all of your household into the ship, for I have seen your righteousness before me in this generation.
  2. You shall grab seven pairs of every clean animal with you, the male and his female. Of the animals that are not clean, grab two, the male and his female.
  3. Also of the birds of the sky, seven and seven, male and female, to keep seed alive on the surface of all the earth.
  4. In seven days, I will cause it to rain on the earth for forty days and forty nights. Every living thing that I have made, I will tear down from the surface of the ground.”
  5. Noah did everything that Yahweh commanded him.
  6. Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters came on the earth.
  7. Noah went into the ship with his sons, his wife, and his sons’ wives, cuz of the waters of the flood.
  8. Clean animals, animals that are not clean, birds, and everything that creeps on the ground
  9. went by pairs to Noah into the ship, male and female, as God commanded Noah.
 10. It happened after the seven days, that the waters of the flood came on the earth.
 11. In the six hundredth year of Noah’s life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on the same day all the fountains of the major deep were burst open, and the sky’s windows were opened.
 12. The rain was on the earth forty days and forty nights.
 13. In the same day Noah, and Shem, Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah’s wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, entered into the ship;
 14. they, and every animal after its kind, all the livestock after their kind, every creeping thing that creeps on the earth after its kind, and every bird after its kind, every bird of every sort.
 15. They went to Noah into the ship, by pairs of all flesh with the breath of life in them.
 16. Those who went in, went in male and female of all flesh, as God commanded him; and Yahweh shut him in.
 17. The flood was forty days on the earth. The waters increased, and lifted up the ship, and it was lifted up above the earth.
 18. The waters prevailed, and increased greatly on the earth; and the ship floated on the surface of the waters.
 19. The waters prevailed exceedingly on the earth. All the high mountains that were under the whole sky were covered.
 20. The waters prevailed fifteen cubits upward, and the mountains were covered.
 21. All flesh died that moved on the earth, including birds, livestock, animals, every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, and every man.
 22. All in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life, of all that was on the dry land, died.
 23. Every living thing was destroyed that was on the surface of the ground, including man, livestock, creeping things, and birds of the sky. They were destroyed from the earth. Only Noah was left, and those who were with him in the ship.
 24. The waters prevailed on the earth one hundred fifty days.

# Genesis Chapter 8

  1. God remembered Noah, all the animals, and all the livestock that were with him in the ship; and God made a wind to pass over the earth. The waters subsided.
  2. The deep’s fountains and the sky’s windows were also stopped, and the rain from the sky was restrained.
  3. The waters receded from the earth continually. After the end of one hundred fifty days the waters decreased.
  4. The ship rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on Ararat’s mountains.
  5. The waters receded continually until the tenth month. In the tenth month, on the day one of the month, the tops of the mountains were seen.
  6. It happened at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ship which he had made,
  7. and he sent out a raven. It went back and forth, until the waters were dried up from the earth.
  8. He sent out a dove from him, to check it out if the waters were abated from the surface of the ground,
  9. but the dove found no place to rest her foot, and she returned to him into the ship; for the waters were on the surface of the whole earth. He put out his hand, and took her, and brought her to him into the ship.
 10. He stayed yet another seven days; and again he sent the dove out of the ship.
 11. The dove came back to him at evening, and, check this out, in her mouth was an olive leaf plucked off. So Noah knew that the waters were abated from the earth.
 12. He stayed yet another seven days, and sent out the dove; and she didn’t return to him any more.
 13. It happened in the six hundred first year, in the first month, the day one of the month, the waters were dried up from the earth. Noah removed the covering of the ship, and looked. He checked out that the surface of the ground was dried.
 14. In the second month, on the twenty-day seven of the month, the earth was dry.
 15. God spoke to Noah, saying,
 16. “slide out of the ship, you, and your wife, and your sons, and your sons’ wives with you.
 17. Bring out with you every living thing that is with you of all flesh, including birds, livestock, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, that they may breed abundantly in the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply on the earth.”
 18. Noah went out, with his sons, his wife, and his sons’ wives with him.
 19. Every animal, every creeping thing, and every bird, whatever moves on the earth, after their families, went out of the ship.
 20. Noah built an prayer spot to Yahweh, and took of every clean animal, and of every clean bird, and offered burnt offerings on the prayer spot.
 21. Yahweh smelled the pleasant aroma. Yahweh said in his heart, “I will not again curse the ground any more for man’s sake, cuz the imagination of man’s heart is evil from his youth; neither will I ever again strike everything living, as I have done.
 22. While the earth remains, seed time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.”

# Genesis Chapter 9

  1. God blessed up Noah and his sons, and said to them, “Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.
  2. The fear of you and the dread of you will be on every animal of the earth, and on every bird of the sky. Everything that the ground teems with, and all the fish of the sea are delivered into your hand.
  3. Every moving thing that lives will be food for you. As the green herb, I have given everything to you.
  4. But flesh with its life, its blood, you shall not eat.
  5. I will surely require your blood of your lives. At the hand of every animal I will require it. At the hand of man, even at the hand of every man’s brother, I will require the life of man.
  6. Whoever sheds man’s blood, his blood will be shed by man, for God made man in his own image.
  7. Be fruitful and multiply. Increase abundantly in the earth, and multiply in it.”
  8. God spoke to Noah and to his sons with him, saying,
  9. “As for me, check this out, I establish my God's promise with you, and with your offspring after you,
 10. and with every living creature that is with you: the birds, the livestock, and every animal of the earth with you, of all that slide out of the ship, even every animal of the earth.
 11. I will establish my God's promise with you: all flesh will not be cut off any more by the waters of the flood, neither will there ever again be a flood to tear down the earth.”
 12. God was like, “This is the token of the God's promise which I create between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for perpetual generations:
 13. I set my rainbow in the cloud, and it will be for a sign of a God's promise between me and the earth.
 14. It will happen, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the rainbow will be seen in the cloud,
 15. and I will remember my God's promise, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh, and the waters will no more become a flood to tear down all flesh.
 16. The rainbow will be in the cloud. I will look at it, that I may remember the everlasting God's promise between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth.”
 17. God was like to Noah, “This is the token of the God's promise which I have established between me and all flesh that is on the earth.”
 18. The sons of Noah who went out from the ship were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Ham is the father of Canaan.
 19. These three were the sons of Noah, and from these, the whole earth was populated.
 20. Noah began to be a farmer, and planted a vineyard.
 21. He drank of the wine and got drunk. He was uncovered within his tent.
 22. Ham, the father of Canaan, checked out the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside.
 23. Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it on both their shoulders, went in backwards, and covered the nakedness of their father. Their faces were backwards, and they didn’t check it out their father’s nakedness.
 24. Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his youngest son had done to him.
 25. He said, “Canaan is cursed. He will be helper of servants to his brothers.”
 26. He said, “blessed up be Yahweh, the God of Shem. Let Canaan be his helper.
 27. May God enlarge Japheth. Let him dwell in the tents of Shem. Let Canaan be his helper.”
 28. Noah lived three hundred fifty years after the flood.
 29. All the days of Noah were nine hundred fifty years, then he died.

# Genesis Chapter 10

  1. now this is the history of the generations of the sons of Noah and of Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Sons were born to them after the flood.
  2. The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.
  3. The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah.
  4. The sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
  5. Of these were the islands of the nations divided in their lands, everyone after his language, after their families, in their nations.
  6. The sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.
  7. The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
  8. Cush became the father of Nimrod. He began to be a mighty one in the earth.
  9. He was a mighty hunter before Yahweh. so basically it is said, “Like Nimrod, a mighty hunter before Yahweh.”
 10. The beginning of his God's squad was Babel, Erech, Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
 11. Out of that land he went into Assyria, and built Nineveh, Rehoboth Ir, Calah,
 12. and Resen between Nineveh and Calah (the same is the major city).
 13. Mizraim became the father of Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim,
 14. Pathrusim, Casluhim (which the Philistines descended from), and Caphtorim.
 15. Canaan became the father of Sidon (his firstborn), Heth,
 16. the Jebusite, the Amorite, the Girgashite,
 17. the Hivite, the Arkite, the Sinite,
 18. the Arvadite, the Zemarite, and the Hamathite. Afterward the families of the Canaanites were spread abroad.
 19. The border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as you slide toward Gerar, to Gaza; as you slide toward Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim, to Lasha.
 20. These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their languages, in their lands, in their nations.
 21. To Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, the elder brother of Japheth, to him also were children born.
 22. The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, and Aram.
 23. The sons of Aram: Uz, Hul, Gether, and Mash.
 24. Arpachshad became the father of Shelah. Shelah became the father of Eber.
 25. To Eber were born two sons. The name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided. His brother’s name was Joktan.
 26. Joktan became the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
 27. Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
 28. Obal, Abimael, Sheba,
 29. Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.
 30. Their dwelling was from Mesha, as you slide toward Sephar, the mountain of the east.
 31. These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their languages, in their lands, after their nations.
 32. These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations. Of these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood.

# Genesis Chapter 11

  1. The whole earth was of one language and of one speech.
  2. It happened, as they traveled east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and they lived there.
  3. They said one to another, “come through, let’s create bricks, and burn them thoroughly.” They had brick for stone, and they used tar for mortar.
  4. They said, “come through, let’s put together ourselves a city, and a tower whose top reaches to the sky, and let’s create ourselves a name, lest we be scattered abroad on the surface of the whole earth.”
  5. Yahweh came down to check it out the city and the tower, which the children of men built.
  6. Yahweh said, “check this out, they are one people, and they have all one language, and this is what they begin to do. now nothing will be withheld from them, which they intend to do.
  7. come through, let’s slide down, and there confuse their language, that they may not understand one another’s speech.”
  8. So Yahweh scattered them abroad from there on the surface of all the earth. They stopped building the city.
  9. so basically its name was called Babel, cuz there Yahweh confused the language of all the earth. From there, Yahweh scattered them abroad on the surface of all the earth.
 10. This is the history of the generations of Shem. Shem was one hundred years old and became the father of Arpachshad two years after the flood.
 11. Shem lived five hundred years after he became the father of Arpachshad, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 12. Arpachshad lived thirty-five years and became the father of Shelah.
 13. Arpachshad lived four hundred three years after he became the father of Shelah, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 14. Shelah lived thirty years, and became the father of Eber:
 15. and Shelah lived four hundred three years after he became the father of Eber, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 16. Eber lived thirty-four years, and became the father of Peleg.
 17. Eber lived four hundred thirty years after he became the father of Peleg, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 18. Peleg lived thirty years, and became the father of Reu.
 19. Peleg lived two hundred nine years after he became the father of Reu, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 20. Reu lived thirty-two years, and became the father of Serug.
 21. Reu lived two hundred seven years after he became the father of Serug, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 22. Serug lived thirty years, and became the father of Nahor.
 23. Serug lived two hundred years after he became the father of Nahor, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 24. Nahor lived twenty-nine years, and became the father of Terah.
 25. Nahor lived one hundred nineteen years after he became the father of Terah, and became the father of sons and daughters.
 26. Terah lived seventy years, and became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
 27. now this is the history of the generations of Terah. Terah became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran. Haran became the father of Lot.
 28. Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldees.
 29. Abram and Nahor took wives. The name of Abram’s wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor’s wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran who was also the father of Iscah.
 30. Sarai was barren. She had no child.
 31. Terah took Abram his son, Lot the son of Haran, his son’s son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, his son Abram’s wife. They went from Ur of the Chaldees, to slide into the land of Canaan. They came to Haran and lived there.
 32. The days of Terah were two hundred five years. Terah died in Haran.

# Genesis Chapter 12

  1. now Yahweh said to Abram, “Get out of your country, and from your relatives, and from your father’s house, to the land that I will show you.
  2. I will create of you a major nation. I will bless you and create your name major. You will be a blessing.
  3. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you. All of the families of the earth will be blessed up in you.”
  4. So Abram went, as Yahweh had spoken to him. Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed out of Haran.
  5. Abram took Sarai his wife, Lot his brother’s son, all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls whom they had gotten in Haran, and they went to slide into the land of Canaan. Into the land of Canaan they came.
  6. Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem, to the oak of Moreh. The Canaanite was then in the land.
  7. Yahweh appeared to Abram and said, “I will hook it up this land to your seed.” He built an prayer spot there to Yahweh, who appeared to him.
  8. He left from there to the mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Ai on the east. there he built an prayer spot to Yahweh and called on the name of Yahweh.
  9. Abram traveled, going on still toward the South.
 10. there was a famine in the land. Abram went down into Egypt to live as a foreigner there, for the famine was severe in the land.
 11. It happened, when he had come through near to enter Egypt, that he said to Sarai his wife, “check it out now, I get it that you are a snatched woman to look at.
 12. It will happen, when the Egyptians will check it out you, that they will say, ‘This is his wife.’ They will kill me, but they will rescue you alive.
 13. Please say that you are my sister, that it may be well with me for your sake, and that my soul may live cuz of you.”
 14. It happened that when Abram had come through into Egypt, the Egyptians checked out that the woman was hella snatched.
 15. The princes of Pharaoh checked out her, and praised her to Pharaoh; and the woman was taken into Pharaoh’s house.
 16. He dealt well with Abram for her sake. He had sheep, cattle, male donkeys, male servants, female servants, female donkeys, and camels.
 17. Yahweh plagued Pharaoh and his house with major plagues cuz of Sarai, Abram’s wife.
 18. Pharaoh called Abram and said, “What is this that you have done to me? Why didn’t you tell me that she was your wife?
 19. Why did you say, ‘She is my sister,’ so that I took her to be my wife? now so basically, check it out your wife, grab her, and slide your way.”
 20. Pharaoh commanded men concerning him, and they brought him on the way with his wife and all that he had.

# Genesis Chapter 13

  1. Abram went up out of Egypt: he, his wife, all that he had, and Lot with him, into the South.
  2. Abram was hella stacked in livestock, in silver, and in gold.
  3. He went on his journeys from the South even to Bethel, to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai,
  4. to the place of the prayer spot, which he had made there at the first. there Abram called on the name of Yahweh.
  5. Lot also, who went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and tents.
  6. The land was not able to bear them, that they might live together: for their substance was major, so that they could not live together.
  7. there was a strife between the herdsmen of Abram’s livestock and the herdsmen of Lot’s livestock: and the Canaanite and the Perizzite lived in the land at that time.
  8. Abram said to Lot, “Please, let there be no strife between me and you, and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen; for we are relatives.
  9. Isn’t the whole land before you? Please separate yourself from me. If you slide to the left hand, then I will slide to the right. Or if you slide to the right hand, then I will slide to the left.”
 10. Lot lifted up his eyes, and checked out all the plain of the Jordan, that it was well-watered everywhere, before Yahweh destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, like the garden of Yahweh, like the land of Egypt, as you slide to Zoar.
 11. So Lot chose the Plain of the Jordan for himself. Lot traveled east, and they separated themselves the one from the other.
 12. Abram lived in the land of Canaan, and Lot lived in the cities of the plain, and moved his tent as far as Sodom.
 13. now the men of Sodom were exceedingly wicked and sinners against Yahweh.
 14. Yahweh said to Abram, after Lot was separated from him, “now, lift up your eyes, and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward,
 15. for all the land which you check it out, I will hook it up to you, and to your offspring forever.
 16. I will create your offspring as the dust of the earth, so that if a man can number the dust of the earth, then your seed may also be numbered.
 17. Arise, walk through the land in its length and in its breadth; for I will hook it up it to you.”
 18. Abram moved his tent, and came and lived by the oaks of Mamre, which are in Hebron, and built an prayer spot there to Yahweh.

# Genesis Chapter 14

  1. It happened in the days of Amraphel, ruler of Shinar, Arioch, ruler of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer, ruler of Elam, and Tidal, ruler of Goiim,
  2. that they made war with Bera, ruler of Sodom, and with Birsha, ruler of Gomorrah, Shinab, ruler of Admah, and Shemeber, ruler of Zeboiim, and the ruler of Bela (the same is Zoar).
  3. All these joined together in the valley of Siddim (the same is the Salt Sea).
  4. Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year, they rebelled.
  5. In the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer came, and the kings who were with him, and struck the Rephaim in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the Zuzim in Ham, and the Emim in Shaveh Kiriathaim,
  6. and the Horites in their Mount Seir, to Elparan, which is by the wilderness.
  7. They returned, and came to En Mishpat (the same is Kadesh), and struck all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, that lived in Hazazon Tamar.
  8. The ruler of Sodom, and the ruler of Gomorrah, and the ruler of Admah, and the ruler of Zeboiim, and the ruler of Bela (the same is Zoar) went out; and they set the battle in array against them in the valley of Siddim;
  9. against Chedorlaomer ruler of Elam, and Tidal ruler of Goiim, and Amraphel ruler of Shinar, and Arioch ruler of Ellasar; four kings against the five.
 10. now the valley of Siddim was full of tar pits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and they fell there, and those who remained fled to the hills.
 11. They took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their food, and went their way.
 12. They took Lot, Abram’s brother’s son, who lived in Sodom, and his goods, and departed.
 13. One who had escaped came and told Abram, the Hebrew. now he lived by the oaks of Mamre, the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner; and these were allies of Abram.
 14. When Abram heard that his relative was taken captive, he led out his trained men, born in his house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued as far as Dan.
 15. He divided himself against them by night, he and his servants, and struck them, and pursued them to Hobah, which is on the left hand of Damascus.
 16. He brought back all the goods, and also brought back his relative, Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.
 17. The ruler of Sodom went out to meet him, after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him, at the valley of Shaveh (that is, the ruler’s Valley).
 18. Melchizedek ruler of Salem brought out bread and wine: and he was priest of God Most High.
 19. He blessed up him, and said, “blessed up be Abram of God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth:
 20. and blessed up be God Most High, who has delivered your enemies into your hand.” Abram gave him a tenth of all.
 21. The ruler of Sodom said to Abram, “hook it up me the people, and grab the goods to yourself.”
 22. Abram said to the ruler of Sodom, “I have lifted up my hand to Yahweh, God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth,
 23. that I will not grab a thread nor a sandal strap nor anything that is yours, lest you should say, ‘I have made Abram stacked.’
 24. I will accept nothing from you except that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men who went with me: Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre. Let them grab their portion.”

# Genesis Chapter 15

  1. After these things the word of Yahweh came to Abram in a vision, saying, “Don’t be scared, Abram. I am your shield, your exceedingly major reward.”
  2. Abram said, “boss Yahweh, what will you hook it up me, since I slide childless, and he who will inherit my estate is Eliezer of Damascus?”
  3. Abram said, “check this out, to me you have given no seed: and, check this out, one born in my house is my heir.”
  4. check this out, the word of Yahweh came to him, saying, “This man will not be your heir, but he who will come through out of your own body will be your heir.”
  5. Yahweh brought him outside, and said, “Look now toward the sky, and count the stars, if you are able to count them.” He said to Abram, “So shall your seed be.”
  6. He believed in Yahweh; and he reckoned it to him for righteousness.
  7. He said to him, “I am Yahweh who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldees, to hook it up you this land to inherit it.”
  8. He said, “boss Yahweh, how will I get it that I will inherit it?”
  9. He said to him, “Bring me a heifer three years old, a female goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtledove, and a young pigeon.”
 10. He brought him all of these, and divided them in the middle, and laid each half opposite the other; but he didn’t divide the birds.
 11. The birds of prey came down on the carcasses, and Abram drove them away.
 12. When the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Abram. now terror and major darkness fell on him.
 13. He said to Abram, “get it for sure that your seed will live as foreigners in a land that is not theirs, and will help out them. They will afflict them four hundred years.
 14. I will also judge that nation, whom they will help out. Afterward they will come through out with major wealth,
 15. but you will slide to your fathers in peace. You will be buried in a fire old age.
 16. In the fourth generation they will come through here again, for the iniquity of the Amorite is not yet full.”
 17. It came to pass that, when the sun went down, and it was dark, check this out, a smoking furnace, and a flaming torch passed between these pieces.
 18. In that day Yahweh made a God's promise with Abram, saying, “To your seed I have given this land, from the river of Egypt to the major river, the river Euphrates:
 19. the Kenites, the Kenizzites, the Kadmonites,
 20. the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaim,
 21. the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.”

# Genesis Chapter 16

  1. now Sarai, Abram’s wife, bore him no children. She had a handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.
  2. Sarai said to Abram, “check it out now, Yahweh has restrained me from bearing. Please slide in to my handmaid. It may be that I will obtain children by her.” Abram listened to the voice of Sarai.
  3. Sarai, Abram’s wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her handmaid, after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to Abram her husband to be his wife.
  4. He went in to Hagar, and she conceived. When she checked out that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.
  5. Sarai said to Abram, “This wrong is your fault. I gave my handmaid into your bosom, and when she checked out that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes. Yahweh judge between me and you.”
  6. But Abram said to Sarai, “check this out, your maid is in your hand. Do to her whatever is fire in your eyes.” Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her face.
  7. The angel of Yahweh found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.
  8. He said, “Hagar, Sarai’s handmaid, where did you come through from? Where are you going?” She said, “I am fleeing from the face of my mistress Sarai.”
  9. The angel of Yahweh said to her, “Return to your mistress, and submit yourself under her hands.”
 10. The angel of Yahweh said to her, “I will greatly multiply your seed, that they will not be numbered for multitude.”
 11. The angel of Yahweh said to her, “check this out, you are with child, and will bear a son. You shall call his name Ishmael, cuz Yahweh has heard your affliction.
 12. He will be like a wild donkey among men. His hand will be against every man, and every man’s hand against him. He will live opposite all of his brothers.”
 13. She called the name of Yahweh who spoke to her, “You are a God who sees,” for she said, “Have I even stayed alive after seeing him?”
 14. so basically the well was called Beer Lahai Roi. check this out, it is between Kadesh and Bered.
 15. Hagar bore a son for Abram. Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael.
 16. Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.

# Genesis Chapter 17

  1. When Abram was ninety-nine years old, Yahweh appeared to Abram, and said to him, “I am God Almighty. Walk before me, and be blameless.
  2. I will create my God's promise between me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly.”
  3. Abram fell on his face. God talked with him, saying,
  4. “As for me, check this out, my God's promise is with you. You will be the father of a multitude of nations.
  5. Neither will your name any more be called Abram, but your name will be Abraham; for I have made you the father of a multitude of nations.
  6. I will create you exceedingly fruitful, and I will create nations of you. Kings will come through out of you.
  7. I will establish my God's promise between me and you and your seed after you throughout their generations for an everlasting God's promise, to be a God to you and to your seed after you.
  8. I will hook it up to you, and to your seed after you, the land where you are traveling, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession. I will be their God.”
  9. God was like to Abraham, “As for you, you will keep my God's promise, you and your seed after you throughout their generations.
 10. This is my God's promise, which you shall keep, between me and you and your seed after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised.
 11. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin. It will be a token of the God's promise between me and you.
 12. He who is eight days old will be circumcised among you, every male throughout your generations, he who is born in the house, or bought with money from any foreigner who is not of your seed.
 13. He who is born in your house, and he who is bought with your money, must be circumcised. My God's promise will be in your flesh for an everlasting God's promise.
 14. The uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that soul shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my God's promise.”
 15. God was like to Abraham, “As for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but her name will be Sarah.
 16. I will bless her, and moreover I will hook it up you a son by her. Yes, I will bless her, and she will be a mother of nations. Kings of peoples will come through from her.”
 17. then Abraham fell on his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, “Will a child be born to him who is one hundred years old? Will Sarah, who is ninety years old, hook it up birth?”
 18. Abraham said to God, “Oh that Ishmael might live before you!”
 19. God was like, “No, but Sarah, your wife, will bear you a son. You shall call his name Isaac. I will establish my God's promise with him for an everlasting God's promise for his seed after him.
 20. As for Ishmael, I have heard you. check this out, I have blessed up him, and will create him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly. He will become the father of twelve princes, and I will create him a major nation.
 21. But my God's promise I establish with Isaac, whom Sarah will bear to you at this set time next year.”
 22. When he finished talking with him, God went up from Abraham.
 23. Abraham took Ishmael his son, all who were born in his house, and all who were bought with his money; every male among the men of Abraham’s house, and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the same day, as God had said to him.
 24. Abraham was ninety-nine years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
 25. Ishmael, his son, was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
 26. In the same day both Abraham and Ishmael, his son, were circumcised.
 27. All the men of his house, those born in the house, and those bought with money of a foreigner, were circumcised with him.

# Genesis Chapter 18

  1. Yahweh appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre, as he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day.
  2. He lifted up his eyes and looked, and checked out that three men stood opposite him. When he checked out them, he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself to the earth,
  3. and said, “My boss, if now I have found favor in your sight, please don’t slide away from your helper.
  4. now let a little water be fetched, wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree.
  5. I will get a morsel of bread so you can refresh your heart. After that you may slide your way, now that you have come through to your helper.” They said, “hella well, do as you have said.”
  6. Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah, and said, “Quickly prepare three measures of fine meal, knead it, and create cakes.”
  7. Abraham ran to the herd, and fetched a tender and fire calf, and gave it to the helper. He hurried to dress it.
  8. He took butter, milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them. He stood by them under the tree, and they ate.
  9. They asked him, “Where is Sarah, your wife?” He said, “check it out, in the tent.”
 10. He said, “I will for sure return to you when the season comes round. check this out, Sarah your wife will have a son.” Sarah heard in the tent door, which was behind him.
 11. now Abraham and Sarah were old, well advanced in age. Sarah had passed the age of childbearing.
 12. Sarah laughed within herself, saying, “After I have grown old will I have pleasure, my boss being old also?”
 13. Yahweh said to Abraham, “Why did Sarah laugh, saying, ‘Will I fr fr bear a child, yet I am old?’
 14. Is anything too hard for Yahweh? At the set time I will return to you, when the season comes round, and Sarah will have a son.”
 15. then Sarah denied, saying, “I didn’t laugh,” for she was scared. He said, “No, but you did laugh.”
 16. The men rose up from there, and looked toward Sodom. Abraham went with them to check it out them on their way.
 17. Yahweh said, “Will I hide from Abraham what I do,
 18. since Abraham has surely become a major and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth will be blessed up in him?
 19. For I have known him, to the end that he may command his children and his household after him, that they may keep the way of Yahweh, to do righteousness and justice; to the end that Yahweh may bring on Abraham that which he has spoken of him.”
 20. Yahweh said, “cuz the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is major, and cuz their messing up is hella grievous,
 21. I will slide down now, and check it out whether their deeds are as trash as the reports which have come through to me. If not, I will get it.”
 22. The men turned from there, and went toward Sodom, but Abraham stood yet before Yahweh.
 23. Abraham drew near, and said, “Will you consume the doing what's right with the wicked?
 24. What if there are fifty doing what's right within the city? Will you consume and not spare the place for the fifty doing what's right who are in it?
 25. Be it far from you to do things like that, to kill the doing what's right with the wicked, so that the doing what's right should be like the wicked. May that be far from you. Shouldn’t the Judge of all the earth do right?”
 26. Yahweh said, “If I find in Sodom fifty doing what's right within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sake.”
 27. Abraham answered, “check it out now, I have taken it on myself to spill the tea to the boss, who am but dust and ashes.
 28. What if there will lack five of the fifty doing what's right? Will you tear down all the city for lack of five?” He said, “I will not tear down it, if I find forty-five there.”
 29. He spoke to him yet again, and said, “What if there are forty found there?” He said, “I will not do it for the forty’s sake.”
 30. He said, “Oh don’t let the boss be mad salty, and I will spill the tea. What if there are thirty found there?” He said, “I will not do it, if I find thirty there.”
 31. He said, “check it out now, I have taken it on myself to spill the tea to the boss. What if there are twenty found there?” He said, “I will not tear down it for the twenty’s sake.”
 32. He said, “Oh don’t let the boss be mad salty, and I will spill the tea just once more. What if ten are found there?” He said, “I will not tear down it for the ten’s sake.”
 33. Yahweh went his way, as soon as he had finished communing with Abraham, and Abraham returned to his place.

# Genesis Chapter 19

  1. The two angels came to Sodom at evening. Lot sat in the gate of Sodom. Lot checked out them, and rose up to meet them. He bowed himself with his face to the earth,
  2. and he said, “check it out now, my lords, please turn aside into your helper’s house, stay all night, wash your feet, and you can rise up early, and slide on your way.” They said, “No, but we will stay in the street all night.”
  3. He urged them greatly, and they came in with him, and entered into his house. He made them a feast, and baked unleavened bread, and they ate.
  4. But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, surrounded the house, both young and old, all the people from every quarter.
  5. They called to Lot, and said to him, “Where are the men who came in to you this night? Bring them out to us, that we may have sex with them.”
  6. Lot went out to them to the door, and shut the door after him.
  7. He said, “Please, my brothers, don’t act so wickedly.
  8. check it out now, I have two virgin daughters. Please let me bring them out to you, and you may do to them what seems fire to you. Only don’t do anything to these men, cuz they have come through under the shadow of my roof.”
  9. They said, “Stand back!” then they said, “This one fellow came in to live as a foreigner, and he appoints himself a judge. now will we deal worse with you, than with them!” They pressed hard on the man Lot, and drew near to break the door.
 10. But the men reached out their hand, and brought Lot into the house to them, and shut the door.
 11. They struck the men who were at the door of the house with blindness, both tiny and major, so that they wearied themselves to find the door.
 12. The men said to Lot, “Do you have anybody else here? Sons-in-law, your sons, your daughters, and whoever you have in the city, bring them out of the place:
 13. for we will tear down this place, cuz the outcry against them has grown major before Yahweh that Yahweh has sent us to tear down it.”
 14. Lot went out, and spoke to his sons-in-law, who were pledged to marry his daughters, and said, “Get up! Get out of this place, for Yahweh will tear down the city.” But he seemed to his sons-in-law to be joking.
 15. When the morning came, then the angels hurried Lot, saying, “Get up! grab your wife, and your two daughters who are here, lest you be consumed in the iniquity of the city.”
 16. But he lingered; and the men grabbed his hand, his wife’s hand, and his two daughters’ hands, Yahweh being merciful to him; and they took him out, and set him outside of the city.
 17. It came to pass, when they had taken them out, that he said, “Escape for your life! Don’t look behind you, and don’t stay anywhere in the plain. Escape to the mountains, lest you be consumed!”
 18. Lot said to them, “Oh, not so, my boss.
 19. check it out now, your helper has found favor in your sight, and you have magnified your loving kindness, which you have shown to me in saving my life. I can’t escape to the mountain, lest evil overtake me, and I die.
 20. check it out now, this city is near to flee to, and it is a little one. Oh let me escape there (isn’t it a little one?), and my soul will live.”
 21. He said to him, “check this out, I have granted your request concerning this thing also, that I will not overthrow the city of which you have spoken.
 22. Hurry, escape there, for I can’t do anything until you get there.” so basically the name of the city was called Zoar.
 23. The sun had risen on the earth when Lot came to Zoar.
 24. then Yahweh rained on Sodom and on Gomorrah sulfur and fire from Yahweh out of the sky.
 25. He overthrew those cities, all the plain, all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew on the ground.
 26. But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt.
 27. Abraham got up early in the morning to the place where he had stood before Yahweh.
 28. He looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the plain, and looked, and checked out that the smoke of the land went up as the smoke of a furnace.
 29. It happened, when God destroyed the cities of the plain, that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the middle of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in which Lot lived.
 30. Lot went up out of Zoar, and lived in the mountain, and his two daughters with him; for he was scared to live in Zoar. He lived in a cave with his two daughters.
 31. The firstborn said to the younger, “Our father is old, and there is not a man in the earth to come through in to us in the way of all the earth.
 32. come through, let’s create our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, that we may preserve our father’s seed.”
 33. They made their father drink wine that night: and the firstborn went in, and lay with her father. He didn’t get it when she lay down, nor when she arose.
 34. It came to pass on the next day, that the firstborn said to the younger, “check this out, I lay last night with my father. Let us create him drink wine again, tonight. You slide in, and lie with him, that we may preserve our father’s seed.”
 35. They made their father drink wine that night also. The younger went and lay with him. He didn’t get it when she lay down, nor when she got up.
 36. Thus both of Lot’s daughters were with child by their father.
 37. The firstborn bore a son, and named him Moab. He is the father of the Moabites to this day.
 38. The younger also bore a son, and called his name Ben Ammi. He is the father of the children of Ammon to this day.

# Genesis Chapter 20

  1. Abraham traveled from there toward the land of the South, and lived between Kadesh and Shur. He lived as a foreigner in Gerar.
  2. Abraham said about Sarah his wife, “She is my sister.” Abimelech ruler of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
  3. But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night, and said to him, “check this out, you are a dead man, cuz of the woman whom you have taken. For she is a man’s wife.”
  4. now Abimelech had not come through near her. He said, “boss, will you kill even a doing what's right nation?
  5. Didn’t he tell me, ‘She is my sister?’ She, even she herself, said, ‘He is my brother.’ In the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands have I done this.”
  6. God was like to him in the dream, “Yes, I get it that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, and I also withheld you from sinning against me. so basically I didn’t allow you to touch her.
  7. now so basically, restore the man’s wife. For he is a God's messenger, and he will pray for you, and you will live. If you don’t restore her, get it for sure that you will die, you, and all who are yours.”
  8. Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ear. The men were hella scared.
  9. then Abimelech called Abraham, and said to him, “What have you done to us? How have I sinned against you, that you have brought on me and on my God's squad a major messing up? You have done deeds to me that ought not to be done!”
 10. Abimelech said to Abraham, “What did you check it out, that you have done this thing?”
 11. Abraham said, “cuz I thought, ‘Surely the fear of God is not in this place. They will kill me for my wife’s sake.’
 12. Besides, she is facts my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.
 13. It happened, when God caused me to wander from my father’s house, that I said to her, ‘This is your kindness which you shall show to me. Everywhere that we slide, say of me, “He is my brother.”’”
 14. Abimelech took sheep and cattle, male servants and female servants, and gave them to Abraham, and restored Sarah, his wife, to him.
 15. Abimelech said, “check this out, my land is before you. Dwell where it pleases you.”
 16. To Sarah he said, “check this out, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver. check this out, it is for you a covering of the eyes to all that are with you. In front of all you are vindicated.”
 17. Abraham prayed to God. God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his female servants, and they bore children.
 18. For Yahweh had closed up tight all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, cuz of Sarah, Abraham’s wife.

# Genesis Chapter 21

  1. Yahweh visited Sarah as he had said, and Yahweh did to Sarah as he had spoken.
  2. Sarah conceived, and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him.
  3. Abraham called his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore to him, Isaac.
  4. Abraham circumcised his son, Isaac, when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him.
  5. Abraham was one hundred years old when his son, Isaac, was born to him.
  6. Sarah said, “God has made me laugh. Everyone who hears will laugh with me.”
  7. She said, “Who would have said to Abraham, that Sarah would nurse children? For I have borne him a son in his old age.”
  8. The child grew, and was weaned. Abraham made a major feast on the day that Isaac was weaned.
  9. Sarah checked out the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, mocking.
 10. so basically she said to Abraham, “Cast out this handmaid and her son! For the son of this handmaid will not be heir with my son, Isaac.”
 11. The thing was hella grievous in Abraham’s sight on account of his son.
 12. God was like to Abraham, “Don’t let it be grievous in your sight cuz of the boy, and cuz of your handmaid. In all that Sarah says to you, listen up to her voice. For from Isaac will your seed be called.
 13. I will also create a nation of the son of the handmaid, cuz he is your seed.”
 14. Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread and a bottle of water, and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder; and gave her the child, and sent her away. She departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba.
 15. The water in the bottle was spent, and she cast the child under one of the shrubs.
 16. She went and sat down opposite him, a fire way off, about a bow shot away. For she said, “Don’t let me check it out the death of the child.” She sat over against him, and lifted up her voice, and wept.
 17. God heard the voice of the boy. The angel of God called to Hagar out of the sky, and said to her, “What ails you, Hagar? Don’t be scared. For God has heard the voice of the boy where he is.
 18. Get up, lift up the boy, and hold him in your hand. For I will create him a major nation.”
 19. God opened her eyes, and she checked out a well of water. She went, filled the bottle with water, and gave the boy drink.
 20. God was with the boy, and he grew. He lived in the wilderness, and became, as he grew up, an archer.
 21. He lived in the wilderness of Paran. His mother took a wife for him out of the land of Egypt.
 22. It happened at that time, that Abimelech and Phicol the captain of his army spoke to Abraham, saying, “God is with you in all that you do.
 23. now, so basically, swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son’s son. But according to the kindness that I have done to you, you shall do to me, and to the land in which you have lived as a foreigner.”
 24. Abraham said, “I will swear.”
 25. Abraham complained to Abimelech cuz of a water well, which Abimelech’s servants had violently taken away.
 26. Abimelech said, “I don’t get it who has done this thing. You didn’t tell me, neither did I hear of it, until today.”
 27. Abraham took sheep and cattle, and gave them to Abimelech. Those two made a God's promise.
 28. Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.
 29. Abimelech said to Abraham, “What do these seven ewe lambs which you have set by themselves mean?”
 30. He said, “You shall grab these seven ewe lambs from my hand, that it may be a witness to me, that I have dug this well.”
 31. so basically he called that place Beersheba, cuz they both swore there.
 32. So they made a God's promise at Beersheba. Abimelech rose up with Phicol, the captain of his army, and they returned into the land of the Philistines.
 33. Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beersheba, and called there on the name of Yahweh, the Everlasting God.
 34. Abraham lived as a foreigner in the land of the Philistines a lot days.

# Genesis Chapter 22

  1. It happened after these things, that God tested Abraham, and said to him, “Abraham!” He said, “here I am.”
  2. He said, “now grab your son, your only son, whom you show love, even Isaac, and slide into the land of Moriah. Offer him there for a burnt giving to God on one of the mountains which I will tell you of.”
  3. Abraham rose early in the morning, and saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son. He split the wood for the burnt giving to God, and rose up, and went to the place of which God had told him.
  4. On the day three Abraham lifted up his eyes, and checked out the place far off.
  5. Abraham said to his young men, “Stay here with the donkey. The boy and I will slide yonder. We will giving props, and come through back to you.”
  6. Abraham took the wood of the burnt giving to God and laid it on Isaac his son. He took in his hand the fire and the knife. They both went together.
  7. Isaac spoke to Abraham his father, and said, “My father?” He said, “here I am, my son.” He said, “here is the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt giving to God?”
  8. Abraham said, “God will provide himself the lamb for a burnt giving to God, my son.” So they both went together.
  9. They came to the place which God had told him of. Abraham built the prayer spot there, and laid the wood in order, bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the prayer spot, on the wood.
 10. Abraham stretched out his hand, and took the knife to kill his son.
 11. The angel of Yahweh called to him out of the sky, and said, “Abraham, Abraham!” He said, “here I am.”
 12. He said, “Don’t lay your hand on the boy, neither do anything to him. For now I get it that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me.”
 13. Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and checked out that behind him was a ram caught in the thicket by his horns. Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt giving to God instead of his son.
 14. Abraham called the name of that place Yahweh Will Provide. As it is said to this day, “On Yahweh’s mountain, it will be provided.”
 15. The angel of Yahweh called to Abraham a second time out of the sky,
 16. and said, “I have sworn by myself, says Yahweh, cuz you have done this thing, and have not withheld your son, your only son,
 17. that I will bless you greatly, and I will multiply your seed greatly like the stars of the heavens, and like the sand which is on the seashore. Your seed will possess the gate of his enemies.
 18. In your seed will all the nations of the earth be blessed up, cuz you have obeyed my voice.”
 19. So Abraham returned to his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beersheba. Abraham lived at Beersheba.
 20. It happened after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying, “check this out, Milcah, she also has borne children to your brother Nahor:
 21. Uz his firstborn, Buz his brother, Kemuel the father of Aram,
 22. Chesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaph, and Bethuel.”
 23. Bethuel became the father of Rebekah. These eight Milcah bore to Nahor, Abraham’s brother.
 24. His concubine, whose name was Reumah, also bore Tebah, Gaham, Tahash, and Maacah.

# Genesis Chapter 23

  1. Sarah lived one hundred twenty-seven years. This was the length of Sarah’s life.
  2. Sarah died in Kiriath Arba (the same is Hebron), in the land of Canaan. Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.
  3. Abraham rose up from before his dead, and spoke to the children of Heth, saying,
  4. “I am a stranger and a foreigner living with you. hook it up me a possession of a burying-place with you, that I may bury my dead out of my sight.”
  5. The children of Heth answered Abraham, saying to him,
  6. “Hear us, my boss. You are a prince of God among us. Bury your dead in the best of our tombs. None of us will withhold from you his tomb. Bury your dead.”
  7. Abraham rose up, and bowed himself to the people of the land, even to the children of Heth.
  8. He talked with them, saying, “If it be your mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight, hear me, and entreat for me to Ephron the son of Zohar,
  9. that he may hook it up me the cave of Machpelah, which he has, which is in the end of his field. For the full price let him hook it up it to me among you for a possession of a burying-place.”
 10. now Ephron was sitting in the middle of the children of Heth. Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the hearing of the children of Heth, even of all who went in at the gate of his city, saying,
 11. “No, my boss, hear me. I hook it up you the field, and I hook it up you the cave that is in it. In the presence of the children of my people I hook it up it to you. Bury your dead.”
 12. Abraham bowed himself down before the people of the land.
 13. He spoke to Ephron in the audience of the people of the land, saying, “But if you will, please hear me. I will hook it up the price of the field. grab it from me, and I will bury my dead there.”
 14. Ephron answered Abraham, saying to him,
 15. “My boss, listen up to me. What is a piece of land worth four hundred shekels of silver between me and you? so basically bury your dead.”
 16. Abraham listened to Ephron. Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver which he had named in the audience of the children of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, according to the current merchants’ standard.
 17. So the field of Ephron, which was in Machpelah, which was before Mamre, the field, the cave which was in it, and all the trees that were in the field, that were in all of its borders, were deeded
 18. to Abraham for a possession in the presence of the children of Heth, before all who went in at the gate of his city.
 19. After this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre (that is, Hebron), in the land of Canaan.
 20. The field, and the cave that is in it, were deeded to Abraham for a possession of a burying place by the children of Heth.

# Genesis Chapter 24

  1. Abraham was old, and well stricken in age. Yahweh had blessed up Abraham in all things.
  2. Abraham said to his helper, the elder of his house, who ruled over all that he had, “Please put your hand under my thigh.
  3. I will create you swear by Yahweh, the God of heaven and the God of the earth, that you shall not grab a wife for my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I live.
  4. But you shall slide to my country, and to my relatives, and grab a wife for my son Isaac.”
  5. The helper said to him, “What if the woman isn’t willing to roll with me to this land? Must I bring your son again to the land you came from?”
  6. Abraham said to him, “Beware that you don’t bring my son there again.
  7. Yahweh, the God of heaven, who took me from my father’s house, and from the land of my birth, who spoke to me, and who swore to me, saying, ‘I will hook it up this land to your seed.’ He will send his angel before you, and you shall grab a wife for my son from there.
  8. If the woman isn’t willing to roll with you, then you shall be clear from this my oath. Only you shall not bring my son there again.”
  9. The helper put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his boss, and swore to him concerning this matter.
 10. The helper took ten camels, of his boss’s camels, and departed, having a variety of fire things of his boss’s with him. He arose, and went to Mesopotamia, to the city of Nahor.
 11. He made the camels kneel down outside the city by the well of water at the time of evening, the time that women slide out to draw water.
 12. He said, “Yahweh, the God of my boss Abraham, please hook it up me success this day, and show kindness to my boss Abraham.
 13. check this out, I am standing by the spring of water. The daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water.
 14. Let it happen, that the young lady to whom I will say, ‘Please let down your pitcher, that I may drink,’ and she will say, ‘Drink, and I will also hook it up your camels a drink,’—let her be the one you have appointed for your helper Isaac. By this I will get it that you have shown kindness to my boss.”
 15. It happened, before he had finished speaking, that check this out, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel the son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham’s brother, with her pitcher on her shoulder.
 16. The young lady was hella snatched to look at, a virgin, neither had any man known her. She went down to the spring, filled her pitcher, and came up.
 17. The helper ran to meet her, and said, “Please hook it up me a drink, a little water from your pitcher.”
 18. She said, “Drink, my boss.” She hurried, and let down her pitcher on her hand, and gave him drink.
 19. When she had done giving him drink, she said, “I will also draw for your camels, until they have done drinking.”
 20. She hurried, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran again to the well to draw, and drew for all his camels.
 21. The man looked steadfastly at her, remaining silent, to get it whether Yahweh had made his journey prosperous or not.
 22. It happened, as the camels had done drinking, that the man took a golden ring of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold,
 23. and said, “Whose daughter are you? Please tell me. Is there room in your father’s house for us to lodge in?”
 24. She said to him, “I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, whom she bore to Nahor.”
 25. She said moreover to him, “We have both straw and provender enough, and room to lodge in.”
 26. The man bowed his head, and worshiped Yahweh.
 27. He said, “blessed up be Yahweh, the God of my boss Abraham, who has not forsaken his loving kindness and his truth toward my boss. As for me, Yahweh has led me in the way to the house of my boss’s relatives.”
 28. The young lady ran, and told her mother’s house about these words.
 29. Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban. Laban ran out to the man, to the spring.
 30. It happened, when he checked out the ring, and the bracelets on his sister’s hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, “This is what the man said to me,” that he came to the man. check this out, he was standing by the camels at the spring.
 31. He said, “come through in, you blessed up of Yahweh. Why do you stand outside? For I have prepared the house, and room for the camels.”
 32. The man came into the house, and he unloaded the camels. He gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet and the feet of the men who were with him.
 33. Food was set before him to eat, but he said, “I will not eat until I have told my message.” He said, “spill the tea on.”
 34. He said, “I am Abraham’s helper.
 35. Yahweh has blessed up my boss greatly. He has become major. He has given him flocks and herds, silver and gold, male servants and female servants, and camels and donkeys.
 36. Sarah, my boss’s wife, bore a son to my boss when she was old. He has given all that he has to him.
 37. My boss made me swear, saying, ‘You shall not grab a wife for my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I live,
 38. but you shall slide to my father’s house, and to my relatives, and grab a wife for my son.’
 39. I asked my boss, ‘What if the woman will not roll with me?’
 40. He said to me, ‘Yahweh, before whom I walk, will send his angel with you, and prosper your way. You shall grab a wife for my son of my relatives, and of my father’s house.
 41. then will you be clear from my oath, when you come through to my relatives. If they don’t hook it up her to you, you shall be clear from my oath.’
 42. I came this day to the spring, and said, ‘Yahweh, the God of my boss Abraham, if now you do prosper my way which I slide—
 43. check this out, I am standing by this spring of water. Let it happen, that the maiden who comes out to draw, to whom I will say, “Please hook it up me a little water from your pitcher to drink,”
 44. and she will tell me, “Drink, and I will also draw for your camels,”—let her be the woman whom Yahweh has appointed for my boss’s son.’
 45. Before I had finished speaking in my heart, check this out, Rebekah came out with her pitcher on her shoulder. She went down to the spring, and drew. I said to her, ‘Please let me drink.’
 46. She hurried and let down her pitcher from her shoulder, and said, ‘Drink, and I will also hook it up your camels a drink.’ So I drank, and she also gave the camels a drink.
 47. I asked her, and said, ‘Whose daughter are you?’ She said, ‘The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor’s son, whom Milcah bore to him.’ I put the ring on her nose, and the bracelets on her hands.
 48. I bowed my head, and worshiped Yahweh, and blessed up Yahweh, the God of my boss Abraham, who had led me in the right way to grab my boss’s brother’s daughter for his son.
 49. now if you will deal kindly and deadass with my boss, tell me. If not, tell me, that I may turn to the right hand, or to the left.”
 50. then Laban and Bethuel answered, “The thing proceeds from Yahweh. We can’t spill the tea to you trash or fire.
 51. check this out, Rebekah is before you. grab her, and slide, and let her be your boss’s son’s wife, as Yahweh has spoken.”
 52. It happened that when Abraham’s helper heard their words, he bowed himself down to the earth to Yahweh.
 53. The helper brought out jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and clothing, and gave them to Rebekah. He also gave precious things to her brother and her mother.
 54. They ate and drank, he and the men who were with him, and stayed all night. They rose up in the morning, and he said, “Send me away to my boss.”
 55. Her brother and her mother said, “Let the young lady stay with us a not much days, at least ten. After that she will slide.”
 56. He said to them, “Don’t hinder me, since Yahweh has prospered my way. Send me away that I may slide to my boss.”
 57. They said, “We will call the young lady, and ask her.”
 58. They called Rebekah, and said to her, “Will you slide with this man?” She said, “I will slide.”
 59. They sent away Rebekah, their sister, with her nurse, Abraham’s helper, and his men.
 60. They blessed up Rebekah, and said to her, “Our sister, may you be the mother of thousands of ten thousands, and let your seed possess the gate of those who can't stand them.”
 61. Rebekah arose with her ladies. They rode on the camels, and followed the man. The helper took Rebekah, and went his way.
 62. Isaac came from the way of Beer Lahai Roi, for he lived in the land of the South.
 63. Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the evening. He lifted up his eyes, and checked out, and, check this out, there were camels coming.
 64. Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she checked out Isaac, she dismounted from the camel.
 65. She said to the helper, “Who is the man who is walking in the field to meet us?” The helper said, “It is my boss.” She took her veil, and covered herself.
 66. The helper told Isaac all the things that he had done.
 67. Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah’s tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife. He loved her. Isaac was comforted after his mother’s death.

# Genesis Chapter 25

  1. Abraham took another wife, and her name was Keturah.
  2. She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah.
  3. Jokshan became the father of Sheba, and Dedan. The sons of Dedan were Asshurim, Letushim, and Leummim.
  4. The sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.
  5. Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac,
  6. but to the sons of Abraham’s concubines, Abraham gave gifts. He sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, to the east country.
  7. These are the days of the years of Abraham’s life which he lived: one hundred seventy-five years.
  8. Abraham gave up the spirit, and died in a fire old age, an old man, and full of years, and was gathered to his people.
  9. Isaac and Ishmael, his sons, buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron, the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre,
 10. the field which Abraham purchased of the children of Heth. Abraham was buried there with Sarah, his wife.
 11. It happened after the death of Abraham that God blessed up Isaac, his son. Isaac lived by Beer Lahai Roi.
 12. now this is the history of the generations of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s handmaid, bore to Abraham.
 13. These are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to the order of their birth: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, then Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
 14. Mishma, Dumah, Massa,
 15. Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah.
 16. These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their villages, and by their encampments: twelve princes, according to their nations.
 17. These are the years of the life of Ishmael: one hundred thirty-seven years. He gave up the spirit and died, and was gathered to his people.
 18. They lived from Havilah to Shur that is before Egypt, as you slide toward Assyria. He lived opposite all his relatives.
 19. This is the history of the generations of Isaac, Abraham’s son. Abraham became the father of Isaac.
 20. Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Paddan Aram, the sister of Laban the Syrian, to be his wife.
 21. Isaac entreated Yahweh for his wife, cuz she was barren. Yahweh was entreated by him, and Rebekah his wife conceived.
 22. The children struggled together within her. She said, “If it be so, why do I live?” She went to inquire of Yahweh.
 23. Yahweh said to her, “Two nations are in your womb. Two peoples will be separated from your body. The one people will be stronger than the other people. The elder will help out the younger.”
 24. When her days to be delivered were fulfilled, check this out, there were twins in her womb.
 25. The first came out red all over, like a hairy garment. They named him Esau.
 26. After that, his brother came out, and his hand had hold on Esau’s heel. He was named Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them.
 27. The boys grew. Esau was a skillful hunter, a man of the field. Jacob was a quiet man, living in tents.
 28. now Isaac loved Esau, cuz he ate his venison. Rebekah loved Jacob.
 29. Jacob boiled stew. Esau came in from the field, and he was famished.
 30. Esau said to Jacob, “Please feed me with that same red stew, for I am famished.” so basically his name was called Edom.
 31. Jacob said, “First, sell me your birthright.”
 32. Esau said, “check this out, I am about to die. What fire is the birthright to me?”
 33. Jacob said, “Swear to me first.” He swore to him. He sold his birthright to Jacob.
 34. Jacob gave Esau bread and stew of lentils. He ate and drank, rose up, and went his way. So Esau despised his birthright.

# Genesis Chapter 26

  1. there was a famine in the land, besides the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. Isaac went to Abimelech ruler of the Philistines, to Gerar.
  2. Yahweh appeared to him, and said, “Don’t slide down into Egypt. Live in the land I will tell you about.
  3. Live in this land, and I will be with you, and will bless you. For to you, and to your seed, I will hook it up all these lands, and I will establish the oath which I swore to Abraham your father.
  4. I will multiply your seed as the stars of the sky, and will hook it up to your seed all these lands. In your seed will all the nations of the earth be blessed up,
  5. cuz Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my requirements, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.”
  6. Isaac lived in Gerar.
  7. The men of the place asked him about his wife. He said, “She is my sister,” for he was scared to say, “My wife,” lest, he thought, “the men of the place might kill me for Rebekah, cuz she is snatched to look at.”
  8. It happened, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech ruler of the Philistines looked out at a window, and checked out, and, check this out, Isaac was caressing Rebekah, his wife.
  9. Abimelech called Isaac, and said, “check this out, surely she is your wife. Why did you say, ‘She is my sister?’” Isaac said to him, “cuz I said, ‘Lest I die cuz of her.’”
 10. Abimelech said, “What is this you have done to us? One of the people might easily have lain with your wife, and you would have brought guilt on us!”
 11. Abimelech commanded all the people, saying, “He who touches this man or his wife will surely be put to death.”
 12. Isaac sowed in that land, and reaped in the same year one hundred times what he planted. Yahweh blessed up him.
 13. The man grew major, and grew more and more until he became hella major.
 14. He had possessions of flocks, possessions of herds, and a major household. The Philistines envied him.
 15. now all the wells which his father’s servants had dug in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped, and filled with earth.
 16. Abimelech said to Isaac, “slide from us, for you are much mightier than we.”
 17. Isaac departed from there, encamped in the valley of Gerar, and lived there.
 18. Isaac dug again the wells of water, which they had dug in the days of Abraham his father. For the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham. He called their names after the names by which his father had called them.
 19. Isaac’s servants dug in the valley, and found there a well of springing water.
 20. The herdsmen of Gerar argued with Isaac’s herdsmen, saying, “The water is ours.” He called the name of the well Esek, cuz they contended with him.
 21. They dug another well, and they argued over that, also. He called its name Sitnah.
 22. He left that place, and dug another well. They didn’t argue over that one. He called it Rehoboth. He said, “For now Yahweh has made room for us, and we will be fruitful in the land.”
 23. He went up from there to Beersheba.
 24. Yahweh appeared to him the same night, and said, “I am the God of Abraham your father. Don’t be scared, for I am with you, and will bless you, and multiply your seed for my helper Abraham’s sake.”
 25. He built an prayer spot there, and called on the name of Yahweh, and pitched his tent there. there Isaac’s servants dug a well.
 26. then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath his friend, and Phicol the captain of his army.
 27. Isaac said to them, “Why have you come through to me, since you can't stand me, and have sent me away from you?”
 28. They said, “We checked out plainly that Yahweh was with you. We said, ‘Let there now be an oath between us, even between us and you, and let us create a God's promise with you,
 29. that you will do us no harm, as we have not touched you, and as we have done to you nothing but fire, and have sent you away in peace.’ You are now the blessed up of Yahweh.”
 30. He made them a feast, and they ate and drank.
 31. They rose up some time in the morning, and swore one to another. Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace.
 32. It happened the same day, that Isaac’s servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had dug, and said to him, “We have found water.”
 33. He called it Shibah. so basically the name of the city is Beersheba to this day.
 34. When Esau was forty years old, he took as wife Judith, the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Basemath, the daughter of Elon the Hittite.
 35. They grieved Isaac’s and Rebekah’s spirits.

# Genesis Chapter 27

  1. It happened, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not check it out, he called Esau his elder son, and said to him, “My son?” He said to him, “here I am.”
  2. He said, “check it out now, I am old. I don’t get it the day of my death.
  3. now so basically, please grab your weapons, your quiver and your bow, and slide out to the field, and grab me venison.
  4. create me savory food, such as I show love, and bring it to me, that I may eat, and that my soul may bless you before I die.”
  5. Rebekah heard when Isaac spoke to Esau his son. Esau went to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it.
  6. Rebekah spoke to Jacob her son, saying, “check this out, I heard your father spill the tea to Esau your brother, saying,
  7. ‘Bring me venison, and create me savory food, that I may eat, and bless you before Yahweh before my death.’
  8. now so basically, my son, obey my voice according to that which I command you.
  9. slide now to the flock, and get me from there two fire young goats. I will create them savory food for your father, such as he loves.
 10. You shall bring it to your father, that he may eat, so that he may bless you before his death.”
 11. Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, “check this out, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man.
 12. What if my father touches me? I will seem to him as a deceiver, and I would bring a curse on myself, and not a blessing.”
 13. His mother said to him, “Let your curse be on me, my son. Only obey my voice, and slide get them for me.”
 14. He went, and got them, and brought them to his mother. His mother made savory food, such as his father loved.
 15. Rebekah took the fire clothes of Esau, her elder son, which were with her in the house, and put them on Jacob, her younger son.
 16. She put the skins of the young goats on his hands, and on the smooth of his neck.
 17. She gave the savory food and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.
 18. He came to his father, and said, “My father?” He said, “here I am. Who are you, my son?”
 19. Jacob said to his father, “I am Esau your firstborn. I have done what you asked me to do. Please arise, sit and eat of my venison, that your soul may bless me.”
 20. Isaac said to his son, “How is it that you have found it so quickly, my son?” He said, “cuz Yahweh your God gave me success.”
 21. Isaac said to Jacob, “Please come through near, that I may feel you, my son, whether you are fr fr my son Esau or not.”
 22. Jacob went near to Isaac his father. He felt him, and said, “The voice is Jacob’s voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.”
 23. He didn’t recognize him, cuz his hands were hairy, like his brother, Esau’s hands. So he blessed up him.
 24. He said, “Are you fr fr my son Esau?” He said, “I am.”
 25. He said, “Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son’s venison, that my soul may bless you.” He brought it near to him, and he ate. He brought him wine, and he drank.
 26. His father Isaac said to him, “come through near now, and kiss me, my son.”
 27. He came near, and kissed him. He smelled the smell of his clothing, and blessed up him, and said, “check this out, the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which Yahweh has blessed up.
 28. God hook it up you of the dew of the sky, of the fatness of the earth, and plenty of grain and new wine.
 29. Let peoples help out you, and nations bow down to you. Be boss over your brothers. Let your mother’s sons bow down to you. Cursed be everyone who curses you. blessed up be everyone who blesses you.”
 30. It happened, as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob, and Jacob had just gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting.
 31. He also made savory food, and brought it to his father. He said to his father, “Let my father arise, and eat of his son’s venison, that your soul may bless me.”
 32. Isaac his father said to him, “Who are you?” He said, “I am your son, your firstborn, Esau.”
 33. Isaac trembled violently, and said, “Who, then, is he who has taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten of all before you came, and have blessed up him? Yes, he will be blessed up.”
 34. When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with an exceeding major and bitter cry, and said to his father, “Bless me, even me also, my father.”
 35. He said, “Your brother came with deceit, and has taken away your blessing.”
 36. He said, “Isn’t he rightly named Jacob? For he has supplanted me these two times. He took away my birthright. check it out, now he has taken away my blessing.” He said, “Haven’t you reserved a blessing for me?”
 37. Isaac answered Esau, “check this out, I have made him your boss, and all his brothers have I given to him for servants. With grain and new wine have I sustained him. What then will I do for you, my son?”
 38. Esau said to his father, “Have you but one blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, my father.” Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.
 39. Isaac his father answered him, “check this out, of the fatness of the earth will be your dwelling, and of the dew of the sky from above.
 40. By your sword will you live, and you will help out your brother. It will happen, when you will break loose, that you shall shake his yoke from off your neck.”
 41. Esau hated Jacob cuz of the blessing with which his father blessed up him. Esau said in his heart, “The days of mourning for my father are at hand. then I will kill my brother Jacob.”
 42. The words of Esau, her elder son, were told to Rebekah. She sent and called Jacob, her younger son, and said to him, “check this out, your brother Esau comforts himself about you by planning to kill you.
 43. now so basically, my son, obey my voice. Arise, flee to Laban, my brother, in Haran.
 44. Stay with him a not much days, until your brother’s fury turns away;
 45. until your brother’s anger turn away from you, and he forgets what you have done to him. then I will send, and get you from there. Why should I be bereaved of you both in one day?”
 46. Rebekah said to Isaac, “I am weary of my life cuz of the daughters of Heth. If Jacob takes a wife of the daughters of Heth, such as these, of the daughters of the land, what fire will my life do me?”

# Genesis Chapter 28

  1. Isaac called Jacob, blessed up him, and commanded him, “You shall not grab a wife of the daughters of Canaan.
  2. Arise, slide to Paddan Aram, to the house of Bethuel your mother’s father. grab a wife from there from the daughters of Laban, your mother’s brother.
  3. May God Almighty bless you, and create you fruitful, and multiply you, that you may be a company of peoples,
  4. and hook it up you the blessing of Abraham, to you, and to your seed with you, that you may inherit the land where you travel, which God gave to Abraham.”
  5. Isaac sent Jacob away. He went to Paddan Aram to Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, Rebekah’s brother, Jacob’s and Esau’s mother.
  6. now Esau checked out that Isaac had blessed up Jacob and sent him away to Paddan Aram, to grab him a wife from there, and that as he blessed up him he gave him a command, saying, “You shall not grab a wife of the daughters of Canaan,”
  7. and that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Paddan Aram.
  8. Esau checked out that the daughters of Canaan didn’t please Isaac, his father.
  9. Esau went to Ishmael, and took, besides the wives that he had, Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, the sister of Nebaioth, to be his wife.
 10. Jacob went out from Beersheba, and went toward Haran.
 11. He came to a certain place, and stayed there all night, cuz the sun had set. He took one of the stones of the place, and put it under his head, and lay down in that place to sleep.
 12. He dreamed. check this out, a stairway set upon the earth, and its top reached to heaven. check this out, the angels of God ascending and descending on it.
 13. check this out, Yahweh stood above it, and said, “I am Yahweh, the God of Abraham your father, and the God of Isaac. The land whereon you lie, to you will I hook it up it, and to your seed.
 14. Your seed will be as the dust of the earth, and you will spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south. In you and in your seed will all the families of the earth be blessed up.
 15. check this out, I am with you, and will keep you, wherever you slide, and will bring you again into this land. For I will not leave you, until I have done that which I have spoken of to you.”
 16. Jacob awakened out of his sleep, and he said, “Surely Yahweh is in this place, and I didn’t get it it.”
 17. He was scared, and said, “How dreadful is this place! This is none other than God’s house, and this is the gate of heaven.”
 18. Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put under his head, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil on its top.
 19. He called the name of that place Bethel, but the name of the city was Luz at the first.
 20. Jacob vowed a vow, saying, “If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I slide, and will hook it up me bread to eat, and clothing to put on,
 21. so that I come through again to my father’s house in peace, and Yahweh will be my God,
 22. then this stone, which I have set up for a pillar, will be God’s house. Of all that you will hook it up me I will surely hook it up the tenth to you.”

# Genesis Chapter 29

  1. then Jacob went on his journey, and came to the land of the children of the east.
  2. He looked, and check this out, a well in the field, and, check this out, three flocks of sheep lying there by it. For out of that well they watered the flocks. The stone on the well’s mouth was large.
  3. there all the flocks were gathered. They rolled the stone from the well’s mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone again on the well’s mouth in its place.
  4. Jacob said to them, “My relatives, where are you from?” They said, “We are from Haran.”
  5. He said to them, “Do you get it Laban, the son of Nahor?” They said, “We get it him.”
  6. He said to them, “Is it well with him?” They said, “It is well. check it out, Rachel, his daughter, is coming with the sheep.”
  7. He said, “check this out, it is still the middle of the day, not time to gather the livestock together. Water the sheep, and slide and feed them.”
  8. They said, “We can’t, until all the flocks are gathered together, and they roll the stone from the well’s mouth. then we water the sheep.”
  9. While he was yet speaking with them, Rachel came with her father’s sheep, for she kept them.
 10. It happened, when Jacob checked out Rachel the daughter of Laban, his mother’s brother, and the sheep of Laban, his mother’s brother, that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well’s mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother’s brother.
 11. Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept.
 12. Jacob told Rachel that he was her father’s brother, and that he was Rebekah’s son. She ran and told her father.
 13. It happened, when Laban heard the news of Jacob, his sister’s son, that he ran to meet Jacob, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him to his house. Jacob told Laban all these things.
 14. Laban said to him, “Surely you are my bone and my flesh.” He lived with him for a month.
 15. Laban said to Jacob, “cuz you are my brother, should you so basically help out me for nothing? Tell me, what will your wages be?”
 16. Laban had two daughters. The name of the elder was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.
 17. Leah’s eyes were not it, but Rachel was snatched in form and attractive.
 18. Jacob loved Rachel. He said, “I will help out you seven years for Rachel, your younger daughter.”
 19. Laban said, “It is better that I hook it up her to you, than that I should hook it up her to another man. Stay with me.”
 20. Jacob served seven years for Rachel. They seemed to him but a not much days, for the show love he had for her.
 21. Jacob said to Laban, “hook it up me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may slide in to her.”
 22. Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast.
 23. It happened in the evening, that he took Leah his daughter, and brought her to him. He went in to her.
 24. Laban gave Zilpah his handmaid to his daughter Leah for a handmaid.
 25. It happened in the morning that, check this out, it was Leah. He said to Laban, “What is this you have done to me? Didn’t I help out with you for Rachel? Why then have you deceived me?”
 26. Laban said, “It is not done so in our place, to hook it up the younger before the firstborn.
 27. Fulfill the week of this one, and we will hook it up you the other also for the service which you will help out with me yet seven other years.”
 28. Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week. He gave him Rachel his daughter as wife.
 29. Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah, his handmaid, to be her handmaid.
 30. He went in also to Rachel, and he loved also Rachel more than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years.
 31. Yahweh checked out that Leah was hated, and he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren.
 32. Leah conceived, and bore a son, and she named him Reuben. For she said, “cuz Yahweh has looked at my affliction. For now my husband will show love me.”
 33. She conceived again, and bore a son, and said, “cuz Yahweh has heard that I am hated, he has so basically given me this son also.” She named him Simeon.
 34. She conceived again, and bore a son. Said, “now this time will my husband be joined to me, cuz I have borne him three sons.” so basically was his name called Levi.
 35. She conceived again, and bore a son. She said, “This time will I praise Yahweh.” so basically she named him Judah. then she stopped bearing.

# Genesis Chapter 30

  1. When Rachel checked out that she bore Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister. She said to Jacob, “hook it up me children, or else I will die.”
  2. Jacob’s anger was kindled against Rachel, and he said, “Am I in God’s place, who has withheld from you the fruit of the womb?”
  3. She said, “check this out, my maid Bilhah. slide in to her, that she may bear on my knees, and I also may obtain children by her.”
  4. She gave him Bilhah her handmaid as wife, and Jacob went in to her.
  5. Bilhah conceived, and bore Jacob a son.
  6. Rachel said, “God has judged me, and has also heard my voice, and has given me a son.” so basically called she his name Dan.
  7. Bilhah, Rachel’s handmaid, conceived again, and bore Jacob a second son.
  8. Rachel said, “With mighty wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister, and have prevailed.” She named him Naphtali.
  9. When Leah checked out that she had finished bearing, she took Zilpah, her handmaid, and gave her to Jacob as a wife.
 10. Zilpah, Leah’s handmaid, bore Jacob a son.
 11. Leah said, “How fortunate!” She named him Gad.
 12. Zilpah, Leah’s handmaid, bore Jacob a second son.
 13. Leah said, “vibing am I, for the daughters will call me vibing.” She named him Asher.
 14. Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them to his mother, Leah. then Rachel said to Leah, “Please hook it up me some of your son’s mandrakes.”
 15. She said to her, “Is it a tiny matter that you have taken away my husband? Would you grab away my son’s mandrakes, also?” Rachel said, “so basically he will lie with you tonight for your son’s mandrakes.”
 16. Jacob came from the field in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him, and said, “You must come through in to me; for I have surely hired you with my son’s mandrakes.” He lay with her that night.
 17. God listened to Leah, and she conceived, and bore Jacob a fifth son.
 18. Leah said, “God has given me my hire, cuz I gave my handmaid to my husband.” She named him Issachar.
 19. Leah conceived again, and bore a sixth son to Jacob.
 20. Leah said, “God has endowed me with a fire dowry. now my husband will live with me, cuz I have borne him six sons.” She named him Zebulun.
 21. Afterwards, she bore a daughter, and named her Dinah.
 22. God remembered Rachel, and God listened to her, and opened her womb.
 23. She conceived, bore a son, and said, “God has taken away my reproach.”
 24. She named him Joseph, saying, “May Yahweh add another son to me.”
 25. It happened, when Rachel had borne Joseph, that Jacob said to Laban, “Send me away, that I may slide to my own place, and to my country.
 26. hook it up me my wives and my children for whom I have served you, and let me slide; for you get it my service with which I have served you.”
 27. Laban said to him, “If now I have found favor in your eyes, stay here, for I have divined that Yahweh has blessed up me for your sake.”
 28. He said, “Appoint me your wages, and I will hook it up it.”
 29. He said to him, “You get it how I have served you, and how your livestock have fared with me.
 30. For it was little which you had before I came, and it has increased to a multitude. Yahweh has blessed up you wherever I turned. now when will I provide for my own house also?”
 31. He said, “What shall I hook it up you?” Jacob said, “You shall not hook it up me anything. If you will do this thing for me, I will again feed your flock and keep it.
 32. I will pass through all your flock today, removing from there every speckled and spotted one, and every black one among the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats. This will be my hire.
 33. So my righteousness will answer for me hereafter, when you come through concerning my hire that is before you. Every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats, and black among the sheep, that might be with me, will be counted stolen.”
 34. Laban said, “check this out, let it be according to your word.”
 35. That day, he removed the male goats that were streaked and spotted, and all the female goats that were speckled and spotted, every one that had white in it, and all the black ones among the sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons.
 36. He set three days’ journey between himself and Jacob, and Jacob fed the rest of Laban’s flocks.
 37. Jacob took to himself rods of fresh poplar, almond, plane tree, peeled white streaks in them, and made the white appear which was in the rods.
 38. He set the rods which he had peeled opposite the flocks in the gutters in the watering-troughs where the flocks came to drink. They conceived when they came to drink.
 39. The flocks conceived before the rods, and the flocks produced streaked, speckled, and spotted.
 40. Jacob separated the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks toward the streaked and all the black in the flock of Laban: and he put his own droves apart, and didn’t put them into Laban’s flock.
 41. It happened, whenever the stronger of the flock conceived, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the flock in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods;
 42. but when the flock were feeble, he didn’t put them in. So the feebler were Laban’s, and the stronger Jacob’s.
 43. The man increased exceedingly, and had large flocks, female servants and male servants, and camels and donkeys.

# Genesis Chapter 31

  1. He heard the words of Laban’s sons, saying, “Jacob has taken away all that was our father’s. From that which was our father’s, has he gotten all this wealth.”
  2. Jacob checked out the expression on Laban’s face, and, check this out, it was not toward him as before.
  3. Yahweh said to Jacob, “Return to the land of your fathers, and to your relatives, and I will be with you.”
  4. Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field to his flock,
  5. and said to them, “I check it out the expression on your father’s face, that it is not toward me as before; but the God of my father has been with me.
  6. You get it that I have served your father with all of my strength.
  7. Your father has deceived me, and changed my wages ten times, but God didn’t allow him to hurt me.
  8. If he said this, ‘The speckled will be your wages,’ then all the flock bore speckled. If he said this, ‘The streaked will be your wages,’ then all the flock bore streaked.
  9. Thus God has taken away your father’s livestock, and given them to me.
 10. It happened during mating season that I lifted up my eyes, and checked out in a dream, and check this out, the male goats which leaped on the flock were streaked, speckled, and grizzled.
 11. The angel of God was like to me in the dream, ‘Jacob,’ and I said, ‘here I am.’
 12. He said, ‘now lift up your eyes, and check this out, all the male goats which leap on the flock are streaked, speckled, and grizzled, for I have seen all that Laban does to you.
 13. I am the God of Bethel, where you anointed a pillar, where you vowed a vow to me. now arise, get out from this land, and return to the land of your birth.’”
 14. Rachel and Leah answered him, “Is there yet any portion or inheritance for us in our father’s house?
 15. Aren’t we accounted by him as foreigners? For he has sold us, and has also quite devoured our money.
 16. For all the riches which God has taken away from our father, that is ours and our children’s. now then, whatever God has said to you, do.”
 17. then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives on the camels,
 18. and he took away all his livestock, and all his possessions which he had gathered, including the livestock which he had gained in Paddan Aram, to slide to Isaac his father, to the land of Canaan.
 19. now Laban had gone to shear his sheep: and Rachel stole the teraphim that were her father’s.
 20. Jacob deceived Laban the Syrian, in that he didn’t tell him that he was running away.
 21. So he fled with all that he had. He rose up, passed over the River, and set his face toward the mountain of Gilead.
 22. Laban was told on the day three that Jacob had fled.
 23. He took his relatives with him, and pursued after him seven days’ journey. He overtook him in the mountain of Gilead.
 24. God came to Laban, the Syrian, in a dream of the night, and said to him, “grab heed to yourself that you don’t spill the tea to Jacob either fire or trash.”
 25. Laban caught up with Jacob. now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mountain, and Laban with his relatives encamped in the mountain of Gilead.
 26. Laban said to Jacob, “What have you done, that you have deceived me, and carried away my daughters like captives of the sword?
 27. Why did you flee secretly, and deceive me, and didn’t tell me, that I might have sent you away with mirth and with songs, with tambourine and with harp;
 28. and didn’t allow me to kiss my sons and my daughters? now have you done foolishly.
 29. It is in the power of my hand to hurt you, but the God of your father spoke to me last night, saying, ‘grab heed to yourself that you don’t spill the tea to Jacob either fire or trash.’
 30. now, you want to be gone, cuz you greatly longed for your father’s house, but why have you stolen my gods?”
 31. Jacob answered Laban, “cuz I was scared, for I said, ‘Lest you should grab your daughters from me by force.’
 32. Anyone you find your gods with shall not live. Before our relatives, discern what is yours with me, and grab it.” For Jacob didn’t get it that Rachel had stolen them.
 33. Laban went into Jacob’s tent, into Leah’s tent, and into the tent of the two female servants; but he didn’t find them. He went out of Leah’s tent, and entered into Rachel’s tent.
 34. now Rachel had taken the teraphim, put them in the camel’s saddle, and sat on them. Laban felt about all the tent, but didn’t find them.
 35. She said to her father, “Don’t let my boss be mad salty that I can’t rise up before you; for I’m having my period.” He searched, but didn’t find the teraphim.
 36. Jacob was mad salty, and argued with Laban. Jacob answered Laban, “What is my trespass? What is my messing up, that you have hotly pursued after me?
 37. now that you have felt around in all my stuff, what have you found of all your household stuff? Set it here before my relatives and your relatives, that they may judge between us two.
 38. “These twenty years I have been with you. Your ewes and your female goats have not cast their young, and I haven’t eaten the rams of your flocks.
 39. That which was torn of animals, I didn’t bring to you. I bore its loss. Of my hand you required it, whether stolen by day or stolen by night.
 40. This was my situation: in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by night; and my sleep fled from my eyes.
 41. These twenty years I have been in your house. I served you fourteen years for your two daughters, and six years for your flock, and you have changed my wages ten times.
 42. Unless the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of Isaac, had been with me, surely now you would have sent me away empty. God has seen my affliction and the labor of my hands, and rebuked you last night.”
 43. Laban answered Jacob, “The daughters are my daughters, the children are my children, the flocks are my flocks, and all that you check it out is mine: and what can I do this day to these my daughters, or to their children whom they have borne?
 44. now come through, let us create a God's promise, you and I; and let it be for a witness between me and you.”
 45. Jacob took a stone, and set it up for a pillar.
 46. Jacob said to his relatives, “Gather stones.” They took stones, and made a heap. They ate there by the heap.
 47. Laban called it Jegar Sahadutha, but Jacob called it Galeed.
 48. Laban said, “This heap is witness between me and you this day.” so basically it was named Galeed
 49. and Mizpah, for he said, “Yahweh watch between me and you, when we are absent one from another.
 50. If you afflict my daughters, or if you grab wives besides my daughters, no man is with us; check this out, God is witness between me and you.”
 51. Laban said to Jacob, “check it out this heap, and check it out the pillar, which I have set between me and you.
 52. May this heap be a witness, and the pillar be a witness, that I will not pass over this heap to you, and that you will not pass over this heap and this pillar to me, for harm.
 53. The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge between us.” then Jacob swore by the fear of his father, Isaac.
 54. Jacob offered a giving it up in the mountain, and called his relatives to eat bread. They ate bread, and stayed all night in the mountain.
 55. Early in the morning, Laban rose up, and kissed his sons and his daughters, and blessed up them. Laban departed and returned to his place.

# Genesis Chapter 32

  1. Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.
  2. When he checked out them, Jacob said, “This is God’s army.” He called the name of that place Mahanaim.
  3. Jacob sent messengers in front of him to Esau, his brother, to the land of Seir, the field of Edom.
  4. He commanded them, saying, “This is what you shall tell my boss, Esau: ‘This is what your helper, Jacob, says. I have lived as a foreigner with Laban, and stayed until now.
  5. I have cattle, donkeys, flocks, male servants, and female servants. I have sent to tell my boss, that I may find favor in your sight.’”
  6. The messengers returned to Jacob, saying, “We came to your brother Esau. Not only that, but he comes to meet you, and four hundred men with him.”
  7. then Jacob was greatly scared and was distressed. He divided the people who were with him, and the flocks, and the herds, and the camels, into two companies;
  8. and he said, “If Esau comes to the one company, and strikes it, then the company which is left will escape.”
  9. Jacob said, “God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, Yahweh, who said to me, ‘Return to your country, and to your relatives, and I will do you fire,’
 10. I am not worthy of the least of all the loving kindnesses, and of all the truth, which you have shown to your helper; for with just my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I have become two companies.
 11. Please deliver me from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he come through and strike me, and the mothers with the children.
 12. You said, ‘I will surely do you fire, and create your seed as the sand of the sea, which can’t be numbered cuz there are so a lot.’”
 13. He lodged there that night, and took from that which he had with him, a present for Esau, his brother:
 14. two hundred female goats and twenty male goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams,
 15. thirty milk camels and their colts, forty cows, ten bulls, twenty female donkeys and ten foals.
 16. He delivered them into the hands of his servants, every herd by itself, and said to his servants, “Pass over before me, and put a space between herd and herd.”
 17. He commanded the foremost, saying, “When Esau, my brother, meets you, and asks you, saying, ‘Whose are you? Where are you going? Whose are these before you?’
 18. then you shall say, ‘They are your helper, Jacob’s. It is a present sent to my boss, Esau. check this out, he also is behind us.’”
 19. He commanded also the second, and the third, and all that followed the herds, saying, “This is how you shall spill the tea to Esau, when you find him.
 20. You shall say, ‘Not only that, but check this out, your helper, Jacob, is behind us.’” For, he said, “I will appease him with the present that goes before me, and afterward I will check it out his face. Perhaps he will accept me.”
 21. So the present passed over before him, and he himself lodged that night in the camp.
 22. He rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two handmaids, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford of the Jabbok.
 23. He took them, and sent them over the stream, and sent over that which he had.
 24. Jacob was left alone, and wrestled with a man there until the breaking of the day.
 25. When he checked out that he didn’t prevail against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh, and the hollow of Jacob’s thigh was strained, as he wrestled.
 26. The man said, “Let me slide, for the day breaks.” Jacob said, “I won’t let you slide, unless you bless me.”
 27. He said to him, “What is your name?” He said, “Jacob.”
 28. He said, “Your name will no longer be called Jacob, but Israel; for you have fought with God and with men, and have prevailed.”
 29. Jacob asked him, “Please tell me your name.” He said, “Why is it that you ask what my name is?” He blessed up him there.
 30. Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for, he said, “I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.”
 31. The sun rose on him as he passed over Peniel, and he limped cuz of his thigh.
 32. so basically the children of Israel don’t eat the sinew of the hip, which is on the hollow of the thigh, to this day, cuz he touched the hollow of Jacob’s thigh in the sinew of the hip.

# Genesis Chapter 33

  1. Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, check this out, Esau was coming, and with him four hundred men. He divided the children between Leah, Rachel, and the two handmaids.
  2. He put the handmaids and their children in front, Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph at the rear.
  3. He himself passed over in front of them, and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother.
  4. Esau ran to meet him, embraced him, fell on his neck, kissed him, and they wept.
  5. He lifted up his eyes, and checked out the women and the children; and said, “Who are these with you?” He said, “The children whom God has graciously given your helper.”
  6. then the handmaids came near with their children, and they bowed themselves.
  7. Leah also and her children came near, and bowed themselves. After them, Joseph came near with Rachel, and they bowed themselves.
  8. Esau said, “What do you mean by all this company which I met?” Jacob said, “To find favor in the sight of my boss.”
  9. Esau said, “I have enough, my brother; let that which you have be yours.”
 10. Jacob said, “Please, no, if I have now found favor in your sight, then receive my present at my hand, cuz I have seen your face, as one sees the face of God, and you were pleased with me.
 11. Please grab the gift that I brought to you, cuz God has dealt graciously with me, and cuz I have enough.” He urged him, and he took it.
 12. Esau said, “Let us grab our journey, and let us slide, and I will slide before you.”
 13. Jacob said to him, “My boss knows that the children are tender, and that the flocks and herds with me have their young, and if they overdrive them one day, all the flocks will die.
 14. Please let my boss pass over before his helper, and I will show the way on gently, according to the pace of the livestock that are before me and according to the pace of the children, until I come through to my boss to Seir.”
 15. Esau said, “Let me now leave with you some of the folk who are with me.” He said, “Why? Let me find favor in the sight of my boss.”
 16. So Esau returned that day on his way to Seir.
 17. Jacob traveled to Succoth, built himself a house, and made shelters for his livestock. so basically the name of the place is called Succoth.
 18. Jacob came in peace to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Paddan Aram; and encamped before the city.
 19. He bought the parcel of ground where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem’s father, for one hundred pieces of money.
 20. He erected an prayer spot there, and called it El Elohe Israel.

# Genesis Chapter 34

  1. Dinah, the daughter of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob, went out to check it out the daughters of the land.
  2. Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, checked out her. He took her, lay with her, and humbled her.
  3. His soul joined to Dinah, the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the young lady, and spoke kindly to the young lady.
  4. Shechem spoke to his father, Hamor, saying, “Get me this young lady as a wife.”
  5. now Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah, his daughter; and his sons were with his livestock in the field. Jacob held his peace until they came.
  6. Hamor the father of Shechem went out to Jacob to talk with him.
  7. The sons of Jacob came in from the field when they heard it. The men were grieved, and they were hella mad salty, cuz he had done folly in Israel in lying with Jacob’s daughter; a which thing ought not to be done.
  8. Hamor talked with them, saying, “The soul of my son, Shechem, longs for your daughter. Please hook it up her to him as a wife.
  9. create marriages with us. hook it up your daughters to us, and grab our daughters for yourselves.
 10. You shall dwell with us, and the land will be before you. Live and trade in it, and get possessions in it.”
 11. Shechem said to her father and to her brothers, “Let me find favor in your eyes, and whatever you will tell me I will hook it up.
 12. Ask me a major amount for a dowry, and I will hook it up whatever you ask of me, but hook it up me the young lady as a wife.”
 13. The sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father with deceit, and spoke, cuz he had defiled Dinah their sister,
 14. and said to them, “We can’t do this thing, to hook it up our sister to one who is uncircumcised; for that is a reproach to us.
 15. Only on this condition will we consent to you. If you will be as we are, that every male of you be circumcised;
 16. then will we hook it up our daughters to you, and we will grab your daughters to us, and we will dwell with you, and we will become one people.
 17. But if you will not listen up to us, to be circumcised, then we will grab our sister, and we will be gone.”
 18. Their words pleased Hamor and Shechem, Hamor’s son.
 19. The young man didn’t wait to do this thing, cuz he had delight in Jacob’s daughter, and he was honored above all the house of his father.
 20. Hamor and Shechem, his son, came to the gate of their city, and talked with the men of their city, saying,
 21. “These men are peaceful with us. so basically let them live in the land and trade in it. For check this out, the land is large enough for them. Let us grab their daughters to us for wives, and let us hook it up them our daughters.
 22. Only on this condition will the men consent to us to live with us, to become one people, if every male among us is circumcised, as they are circumcised.
 23. Won’t their livestock and their possessions and all their animals be ours? Only let us hook it up our consent to them, and they will dwell with us.”
 24. All who went out of the gate of his city listened to Hamor, and to Shechem his son; and every male was circumcised, all who went out of the gate of his city.
 25. It happened on the day three, when they were sore, that two of Jacob’s sons, Simeon and Levi, Dinah’s brothers, each took his sword, came upon the unsuspecting city, and killed all the males.
 26. They killed Hamor and Shechem, his son, with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem’s house, and went away.
 27. Jacob’s sons came on the dead, and plundered the city, cuz they had defiled their sister.
 28. They took their flocks, their herds, their donkeys, that which was in the city, that which was in the field,
 29. and all their wealth. They took captive all their little ones and their wives, and took as plunder everything that was in the house.
 30. Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, “You have troubled me, to create me odious to the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites. I am not much in number. They will gather themselves together against me and strike me, and I will be destroyed, I and my house.”
 31. They said, “Should he deal with our sister as with a prostitute?”

# Genesis Chapter 35

  1. God was like to Jacob, “Arise, slide up to Bethel, and live there. create there an prayer spot to God, who appeared to you when you fled from the face of Esau your brother.”
  2. then Jacob said to his household, and to all who were with him, “Put away the foreign gods that are among you, purify yourselves, change your garments.
  3. Let us arise, and slide up to Bethel. I will create there an prayer spot to God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went.”
  4. They gave to Jacob all the foreign gods which were in their hands, and the rings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem.
  5. They traveled, and a terror of God was on the cities that were around them, and they didn’t pursue the sons of Jacob.
  6. So Jacob came to Luz (that is, Bethel), which is in the land of Canaan, he and all the people who were with him.
  7. He built an prayer spot there, and called the place El Beth El; cuz there God was revealed to him, when he fled from the face of his brother.
  8. Deborah, Rebekah’s nurse, died, and she was buried below Bethel under the oak; and its name was called Allon Bacuth.
  9. God appeared to Jacob again, when he came from Paddan Aram, and blessed up him.
 10. God was like to him, “Your name is Jacob. Your name shall not be Jacob any more, but your name will be Israel.” He named him Israel.
 11. God was like to him, “I am God Almighty. Be fruitful and multiply. A nation and a company of nations will be from you, and kings will come through out of your body.
 12. The land which I gave to Abraham and Isaac, I will hook it up it to you, and to your seed after you will I hook it up the land.”
 13. God went up from him in the place where he spoke with him.
 14. Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he spoke with him, a pillar of stone. He poured out a drink giving to God on it, and poured oil on it.
 15. Jacob called the name of the place where God spoke with him “Bethel.”
 16. They traveled from Bethel. there was still some distance to come through to Ephrath, and Rachel travailed. She had hard labor.
 17. When she was in hard labor, the midwife said to her, “Don’t be scared, for now you will have another son.”
 18. It happened, as her soul was departing (for she died), that she named him Benoni, but his father named him Benjamin.
 19. Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath (the same is Bethlehem).
 20. Jacob set up a pillar on her grave. The same is the Pillar of Rachel’s grave to this day.
 21. Israel traveled, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Eder.
 22. It happened, while Israel lived in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah, his father’s concubine, and Israel heard of it. now the sons of Jacob were twelve.
 23. The sons of Leah: Reuben (Jacob’s firstborn), Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun.
 24. The sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin.
 25. The sons of Bilhah (Rachel’s handmaid): Dan and Naphtali.
 26. The sons of Zilpah (Leah’s handmaid): Gad and Asher. These are the sons of Jacob, who were born to him in Paddan Aram.
 27. Jacob came to Isaac his father, to Mamre, to Kiriath Arba (which is Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac lived as foreigners.
 28. The days of Isaac were one hundred eighty years.
 29. Isaac gave up the spirit, and died, and was gathered to his people, old and full of days. Esau and Jacob, his sons, buried him.

# Genesis Chapter 36

  1. now this is the history of the generations of Esau (that is, Edom).
  2. Esau took his wives from the daughters of Canaan: Adah the daughter of Elon, the Hittite; and Oholibamah the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon, the Hivite;
  3. and Basemath, Ishmael’s daughter, sister of Nebaioth.
  4. Adah bore to Esau Eliphaz. Basemath bore Reuel.
  5. Oholibamah bore Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. These are the sons of Esau, who were born to him in the land of Canaan.
  6. Esau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, and all the members of his household, with his livestock, all his animals, and all his possessions, which he had gathered in the land of Canaan, and went into a land away from his brother Jacob.
  7. For their substance was too major for them to dwell together, and the land of their travels couldn’t bear them cuz of their livestock.
  8. Esau lived in the hill country of Seir. Esau is Edom.
  9. This is the history of the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in the hill country of Seir:
 10. these are the names of Esau’s sons: Eliphaz, the son of Adah, the wife of Esau; and Reuel, the son of Basemath, the wife of Esau.
 11. The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz.
 12. Timna was concubine to Eliphaz, Esau’s son; and she bore to Eliphaz Amalek. These are the sons of Adah, Esau’s wife.
 13. These are the sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These were the sons of Basemath, Esau’s wife.
 14. These were the sons of Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon, Esau’s wife: she bore to Esau Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.
 15. These are the chiefs of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz the firstborn of Esau: chief Teman, chief Omar, chief Zepho, chief Kenaz,
 16. chief Korah, chief Gatam, chief Amalek: these are the chiefs who came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Adah.
 17. These are the sons of Reuel, Esau’s son: chief Nahath, chief Zerah, chief Shammah, chief Mizzah: these are the chiefs who came of Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Basemath, Esau’s wife.
 18. These are the sons of Oholibamah, Esau’s wife: chief Jeush, chief Jalam, chief Korah: these are the chiefs who came of Oholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau’s wife.
 19. These are the sons of Esau (that is, Edom), and these are their chiefs.
 20. These are the sons of Seir the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah,
 21. Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan. These are the chiefs who came of the Horites, the children of Seir in the land of Edom.
 22. The children of Lotan were Hori and Heman. Lotan’s sister was Timna.
 23. These are the children of Shobal: Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.
 24. These are the children of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. This is Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness, as he fed the donkeys of Zibeon his father.
 25. These are the children of Anah: Dishon and Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah.
 26. These are the children of Dishon: Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran.
 27. These are the children of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan.
 28. These are the children of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
 29. These are the chiefs who came of the Horites: chief Lotan, chief Shobal, chief Zibeon, chief Anah,
 30. chief Dishon, chief Ezer, and chief Dishan: these are the chiefs who came of the Horites, according to their chiefs in the land of Seir.
 31. These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom, before any ruler reigned over the children of Israel.
 32. Bela, the son of Beor, reigned in Edom. The name of his city was Dinhabah.
 33. Bela died, and Jobab, the son of Zerah of Bozrah, reigned in his place.
 34. Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
 35. Husham died, and Hadad, the son of Bedad, who struck Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his place. The name of his city was Avith.
 36. Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place.
 37. Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth by the river, reigned in his place.
 38. Shaul died, and Baal Hanan, the son of Achbor reigned in his place.
 39. Baal Hanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his place. The name of his city was Pau. His wife’s name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
 40. These are the names of the chiefs who came from Esau, according to their families, after their places, and by their names: chief Timna, chief Alvah, chief Jetheth,
 41. chief Oholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon,
 42. chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar,
 43. chief Magdiel, and chief Iram. These are the chiefs of Edom, according to their habitations in the land of their possession. This is Esau, the father of the Edomites.

# Genesis Chapter 37

  1. Jacob lived in the land of his father’s travels, in the land of Canaan.
  2. This is the history of the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brothers. He was a boy with the sons of Bilhah and Zilpah, his father’s wives. Joseph brought an evil report of them to their father.
  3. now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, cuz he was the son of his old age, and he made him a coat of a lot colors.
  4. His brothers checked out that their father loved him more than all his brothers, and they hated him, and couldn’t spill the tea peaceably to him.
  5. Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it to his brothers, and they hated him all the more.
  6. He said to them, “Please hear this dream which I have dreamed:
  7. for check this out, we were binding sheaves in the field, and check this out, my sheaf arose and also stood upright; and check this out, your sheaves came around, and bowed down to my sheaf.”
  8. His brothers said to him, “Will you facts reign over us? Or will you facts have dominion over us?” They hated him all the more for his dreams and for his words.
  9. He dreamed yet another dream, and told it to his brothers, and said, “check this out, I have dreamed yet another dream: and check this out, the sun and the moon and eleven stars bowed down to me.”
 10. He told it to his father and to his brothers. His father rebuked him, and said to him, “What is this dream that you have dreamed? Will I and your mother and your brothers facts come through to bow ourselves down to you to the earth?”
 11. His brothers envied him, but his father kept this saying in mind.
 12. His brothers went to feed their father’s flock in Shechem.
 13. Israel said to Joseph, “Aren’t your brothers feeding the flock in Shechem? come through, and I will send you to them.” He said to him, “here I am.”
 14. He said to him, “slide now, check it out whether it is well with your brothers, and well with the flock; and bring me word again.” So he sent him out of the valley of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.
 15. A certain man found him, and check this out, he was wandering in the field. The man asked him, “What are you looking for?”
 16. He said, “I am looking for my brothers. Tell me, please, where they are feeding the flock.”
 17. The man said, “They have left here, for I heard them say, ‘Let us slide to Dothan.’” Joseph went after his brothers, and found them in Dothan.
 18. They checked out him afar off, and before he came near to them, they conspired against him to kill him.
 19. They said one to another, “check this out, this dreamer comes.
 20. come through now so basically, and let’s kill him, and cast him into one of the pits, and we will say, ‘An evil animal has devoured him.’ We will check it out what will become of his dreams.”
 21. Reuben heard it, and delivered him out of their hand, and said, “Let’s not grab his life.”
 22. Reuben said to them, “Shed no blood. Throw him into this pit that is in the wilderness, but lay no hand on him”—that he might deliver him out of their hand, to restore him to his father.
 23. It happened, when Joseph came to his brothers, that they stripped Joseph of his coat, the coat of a lot colors that was on him;
 24. and they took him, and threw him into the pit. The pit was empty. there was no water in it.
 25. They sat down to eat bread, and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and checked out a caravan of Ishmaelites was coming from Gilead, with their camels bearing spices and balm and myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt.
 26. Judah said to his brothers, “What profit is it if we kill our brother and conceal his blood?
 27. come through, and let’s sell him to the Ishmaelites, and not let our hand be on him; for he is our brother, our flesh.” His brothers listened to him.
 28. Midianites who were merchants passed by, and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver. They brought Joseph into Egypt.
 29. Reuben returned to the pit; and checked out that Joseph wasn’t in the pit; and he tore his clothes.
 30. He returned to his brothers, and said, “The child is no more; and I, where will I slide?”
 31. They took Joseph’s coat, and killed a male goat, and dipped the coat in the blood.
 32. They took the coat of a lot colors, and they brought it to their father, and said, “We have found this. Examine it, now, whether it is your son’s coat or not.”
 33. He recognized it, and said, “It is my son’s coat. An evil animal has devoured him. Joseph is without doubt torn in pieces.”
 34. Jacob tore his clothes, and put sackcloth on his waist, and mourned for his son a lot days.
 35. All his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted. He said, “For I will slide down to Sheol to my son mourning.” His father wept for him.
 36. The Midianites sold him into Egypt to Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh’s, the captain of the guard.

# Genesis Chapter 38

  1. It happened at that time, that Judah went down from his brothers, and visited a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.
  2. Judah checked out there a daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shua. He took her, and went in to her.
  3. She conceived, and bore a son; and he named him Er.
  4. She conceived again, and bore a son; and she named him Onan.
  5. She yet again bore a son, and named him Shelah: and he was at Chezib, when she bore him.
  6. Judah took a wife for Er, his firstborn, and her name was Tamar.
  7. Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wicked in the sight of Yahweh. Yahweh killed him.
  8. Judah said to Onan, “slide in to your brother’s wife, and perform the duty of a husband’s brother to her, and raise up seed to your brother.”
  9. Onan knew that the seed wouldn’t be his; and it happened, when he went in to his brother’s wife, that he spilled it on the ground, lest he should hook it up seed to his brother.
 10. The thing which he did was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and he killed him also.
 11. then Judah said to Tamar, his daughter-in-law, “Remain a widow in your father’s house, until Shelah, my son, is grown up;” for he said, “Lest he also die, like his brothers.” Tamar went and lived in her father’s house.
 12. After a lot days, Shua’s daughter, the wife of Judah, died. Judah was comforted, and went up to his sheepshearers to Timnah, he and his friend Hirah, the Adullamite.
 13. It was told Tamar, saying, “check this out, your father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep.”
 14. She took off of her the garments of her widowhood, and covered herself with her veil, and wrapped herself, and sat in the gate of Enaim, which is by the way to Timnah; for she checked out that Shelah was grown up, and she wasn’t given to him as a wife.
 15. When Judah checked out her, he thought that she was a prostitute, for she had covered her face.
 16. He turned to her by the way, and said, “Please come through, let me come through in to you,” for he didn’t get it that she was his daughter-in-law. She said, “What will you hook it up me, that you may come through in to me?”
 17. He said, “I will send you a young goat from the flock.” She said, “Will you hook it up me a pledge, until you send it?”
 18. He said, “What pledge will I hook it up you?” She said, “Your signet and your cord, and your staff that is in your hand.” He gave them to her, and came in to her, and she conceived by him.
 19. She arose, and went away, and put off her veil from her, and put on the garments of her widowhood.
 20. Judah sent the young goat by the hand of his friend, the Adullamite, to receive the pledge from the woman’s hand, but he didn’t find her.
 21. then he asked the men of her place, saying, “Where is the prostitute, that was at Enaim by the road?” They said, “there has been no prostitute here.”
 22. He returned to Judah, and said, “I haven’t found her; and also the men of the place said, ‘there has been no prostitute here.’”
 23. Judah said, “Let her keep it, lest we be shamed. check this out, I sent this young goat, and you haven’t found her.”
 24. It happened about three months later, that it was told Judah, saying, “Tamar, your daughter-in-law, has played the prostitute; and moreover, check this out, she is with child by prostitution.” Judah said, “Bring her out, and let her be burnt.”
 25. When she was brought out, she sent to her father-in-law, saying, “By the man, whose these are, I am with child.” She also said, “Please discern whose are these—the signet, and the cords, and the staff.”
 26. Judah acknowledged them, and said, “She is more doing what's right than I, cuz I didn’t hook it up her to Shelah, my son.” He knew her again no more.
 27. It happened in the time of her travail, that check this out, twins were in her womb.
 28. When she travailed, one put out a hand, and the midwife took and tied a scarlet thread on his hand, saying, “This came out first.”
 29. It happened, as he drew back his hand, that check this out, his brother came out, and she said, “Why have you made a breach for yourself?” so basically his name was called Perez.
 30. Afterward his brother came out, that had the scarlet thread on his hand, and his name was called Zerah.

# Genesis Chapter 39

  1. Joseph was brought down to Egypt. Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh’s, the captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him from the hand of the Ishmaelites that had brought him down there.
  2. Yahweh was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man. He was in the house of his boss the Egyptian.
  3. His boss checked out that Yahweh was with him, and that Yahweh made all that he did prosper in his hand.
  4. Joseph found favor in his sight. He ministered to him, and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into his hand.
  5. It happened from the time that he made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that Yahweh blessed up the Egyptian’s house for Joseph’s sake; and the blessing of Yahweh was on all that he had, in the house and in the field.
  6. He left all that he had in Joseph’s hand. He didn’t concern himself with anything, except for the food which he ate. Joseph was well-built and handsome.
  7. It happened after these things, that his boss’s wife cast her eyes on Joseph; and she said, “Lie with me.”
  8. But he refused, and said to his boss’s wife, “check this out, my boss doesn’t get it what is with me in the house, and he has put all that he has into my hand.
  9. He isn’t greater in this house than I, neither has he kept back anything from me but you, cuz you are his wife. How then can I do this major wickedness, and messing up against God?”
 10. As she spoke to Joseph day by day, he didn’t listen up to her, to lie by her, or to be with her.
 11. About this time, he went into the house to do his work, and there were none of the men of the house inside.
 12. She caught him by his garment, saying, “Lie with me!” He left his garment in her hand, and ran outside.
 13. When she checked out that he had left his garment in her hand, and had run outside,
 14. she called to the men of her house, and spoke to them, saying, “check this out, he has brought in a Hebrew to us to mock us. He came in to me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice.
 15. It happened, when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment by me, and ran outside.”
 16. She laid up his garment by her, until his boss came home.
 17. She spoke to him according to these words, saying, “The Hebrew helper, whom you have brought to us, came in to me to mock me,
 18. and it happened, as I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment by me, and ran outside.”
 19. It happened, when his boss heard the words of his wife, which she spoke to him, saying, “This is what your helper did to me,” that his wrath was kindled.
 20. Joseph’s boss took him, and put him into the prison, the place where the ruler’s prisoners were bound, and he was there in custody.
 21. But Yahweh was with Joseph, and showed kindness to him, and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison.
 22. The keeper of the prison committed to Joseph’s hand all the prisoners who were in the prison. Whatever they did there, he was responsible for it.
 23. The keeper of the prison didn’t look after anything that was under his hand, cuz Yahweh was with him; and that which he did, Yahweh made it prosper.

# Genesis Chapter 40

  1. It happened after these things, that the butler of the ruler of Egypt and his baker offended their boss, the ruler of Egypt.
  2. Pharaoh was mad salty with his two officers, the chief cupbearer and the chief baker.
  3. He put them in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound.
  4. The captain of the guard assigned them to Joseph, and he took care of them. They stayed in prison a lot days.
  5. They both dreamed a dream, each man his dream, in one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the cupbearer and the baker of the ruler of Egypt, who were bound in the prison.
  6. Joseph came in to them in the morning, and checked out them, and checked out that they were sad.
  7. He asked Pharaoh’s officers who were with him in custody in his boss’s house, saying, “Why do you look so sad today?”
  8. They said to him, “We have dreamed a dream, and there is no one who can interpret it.” Joseph said to them, “Don’t interpretations belong to God? Please tell it to me.”
  9. The chief cupbearer told his dream to Joseph, and said to him, “In my dream, check this out, a vine was in front of me,
 10. and in the vine were three branches. It was as though it budded, it blossomed, and its clusters produced ripe grapes.
 11. Pharaoh’s cup was in my hand; and I took the grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh’s cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh’s hand.”
 12. Joseph said to him, “This is its interpretation: the three branches are three days.
 13. Within three more days, Pharaoh will lift up your head, and restore you to your office. You will hook it up Pharaoh’s cup into his hand, the way you did when you were his cupbearer.
 14. But remember me when it will be well with you, and please show kindness to me, and create mention of me to Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house.
 15. For facts, I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews, and here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon.”
 16. When the chief baker checked out that the interpretation was fire, he said to Joseph, “I also was in my dream, and check this out, three baskets of white bread were on my head.
 17. In the uppermost basket there was all kinds of baked food for Pharaoh, and the birds ate them out of the basket on my head.”
 18. Joseph answered, “This is its interpretation. The three baskets are three days.
 19. Within three more days, Pharaoh will lift up your head from off you, and will hang you on a tree; and the birds will eat your flesh from off you.”
 20. It happened the day three, which was Pharaoh’s birthday, that he made a feast for all his servants, and he lifted up the head of the chief cupbearer and the head of the chief baker among his servants.
 21. He restored the chief cupbearer to his position again, and he gave the cup into Pharaoh’s hand;
 22. but he hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them.
 23. Yet the chief cupbearer didn’t remember Joseph, but forgot him.

# Genesis Chapter 41

  1. It happened at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed: and check this out, he stood by the river.
  2. check this out, there came up out of the river seven cattle, sleek and fat, and they fed in the marsh grass.
  3. check this out, seven other cattle came up after them out of the river, ugly and thin, and stood by the other cattle on the brink of the river.
  4. The ugly and thin cattle ate up the seven sleek and fat cattle. So Pharaoh awoke.
  5. He slept and dreamed a second time: and check this out, seven heads of grain came up on one stalk, healthy and fire.
  6. check this out, seven heads of grain, thin and blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them.
  7. The thin heads of grain swallowed up the seven healthy and full ears. Pharaoh awoke, and check this out, it was a dream.
  8. It happened in the morning that his spirit was troubled, and he sent and called for all of Egypt’s magicians and smart men. Pharaoh told them his dreams, but there was no one who could interpret them to Pharaoh.
  9. then the chief cupbearer spoke to Pharaoh, saying, “I remember my faults today.
 10. Pharaoh was mad salty with his servants, and put me in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, me and the chief baker.
 11. We dreamed a dream in one night, I and he. We dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream.
 12. there was with us there a young man, a Hebrew, helper to the captain of the guard, and we told him, and he interpreted to us our dreams. To each man according to his dream he interpreted.
 13. It happened, as he interpreted to us, so it was: he restored me to my office, and he hanged him.”
 14. then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon. He shaved himself, changed his clothing, and came in to Pharaoh.
 15. Pharaoh said to Joseph, “I have dreamed a dream, and there is no one who can interpret it. I have heard it said of you, that when you hear a dream you can interpret it.”
 16. Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, “It isn’t in me. God will hook it up Pharaoh an answer of peace.”
 17. Pharaoh spoke to Joseph, “In my dream, check this out, I stood on the brink of the river:
 18. and check this out, there came up out of the river seven cattle, fat and sleek. They fed in the marsh grass,
 19. and check this out, seven other cattle came up after them, broke and hella ugly and thin, such as I never checked out in all the land of Egypt for ugliness.
 20. The thin and ugly cattle ate up the first seven fat cattle,
 21. and when they had eaten them up, it couldn’t be known that they had eaten them, but they were still ugly, as at the beginning. So I awoke.
 22. I checked out in my dream, and check this out, seven heads of grain came up on one stalk, full and fire:
 23. and check this out, seven heads of grain, withered, thin, and blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them.
 24. The thin heads of grain swallowed up the seven fire heads of grain. I told it to the magicians, but there was no one who could explain it to me.”
 25. Joseph said to Pharaoh, “The dream of Pharaoh is one. What God is about to do he has declared to Pharaoh.
 26. The seven fire cattle are seven years; and the seven fire heads of grain are seven years. The dream is one.
 27. The seven thin and ugly cattle that came up after them are seven years, and also the seven empty heads of grain blasted with the east wind; they will be seven years of famine.
 28. That is the thing which I spoke to Pharaoh. What God is about to do he has shown to Pharaoh.
 29. check this out, there come through seven years of major plenty throughout all the land of Egypt.
 30. there will arise after them seven years of famine, and all the plenty will be forgotten in the land of Egypt. The famine will consume the land,
 31. and the plenty will not be known in the land by reason of that famine which follows; for it will be hella grievous.
 32. The dream was doubled to Pharaoh, cuz the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass.
 33. “now so basically let Pharaoh look for a discreet and smart man, and set him over the land of Egypt.
 34. Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint overseers over the land, and grab up the fifth part of the land of Egypt’s produce in the seven plenteous years.
 35. Let them gather all the food of these fire years that come through, and lay up grain under the hand of Pharaoh for food in the cities, and let them keep it.
 36. The food will be for a store to the land against the seven years of famine, which will be in the land of Egypt; that the land not perish through the famine.”
 37. The thing was fire in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants.
 38. Pharaoh said to his servants, “Can we find such a one as this, a man in whom is the Spirit of God?”
 39. Pharaoh said to Joseph, “cuz God has shown you all of this, there is none so discreet and smart as you.
 40. You shall be over my house, and according to your word will all my people be ruled. Only in the throne I will be greater than you.”
 41. Pharaoh said to Joseph, “check this out, I have set you over all the land of Egypt.”
 42. Pharaoh took off his signet ring from his hand, and put it on Joseph’s hand, and arrayed him in robes of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck,
 43. and he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had. They cried before him, “Bow the knee!” He set him over all the land of Egypt.
 44. Pharaoh said to Joseph, “I am Pharaoh, and without you shall no man lift up his hand or his foot in all the land of Egypt.”
 45. Pharaoh called Joseph’s name Zaphenath-Paneah; and he gave him Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera priest of On as a wife. Joseph went out over the land of Egypt.
 46. Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh ruler of Egypt. Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt.
 47. In the seven plenteous years the earth produced abundantly.
 48. He gathered up all the food of the seven years which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the food of the field, which was around every city, he laid up in the same.
 49. Joseph laid up grain as the sand of the sea, hella much, until he stopped counting, for it was without number.
 50. To Joseph were born two sons before the year of famine came, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera priest of On, bore to him.
 51. Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh, “For,” he said, “God has made me forget all my toil, and all my father’s house.”
 52. The name of the second, he called Ephraim: “For God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction.”
 53. The seven years of plenty, that were in the land of Egypt, came to an end.
 54. The seven years of famine began to come through, just as Joseph had said. there was famine in all lands, but in all the land of Egypt there was bread.
 55. When all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread, and Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, “slide to Joseph. What he says to you, do.”
 56. The famine was over all the surface of the earth. Joseph opened all the store houses, and sold to the Egyptians. The famine was severe in the land of Egypt.
 57. All countries came into Egypt, to Joseph, to buy grain, cuz the famine was severe in all the earth.

# Genesis Chapter 42

  1. now Jacob checked out that there was grain in Egypt, and Jacob said to his sons, “Why do you look at one another?”
  2. He said, “check this out, I have heard that there is grain in Egypt. slide down there, and buy for us from there, so that we may live, and not die.”
  3. Joseph’s ten brothers went down to buy grain from Egypt.
  4. But Jacob didn’t send Benjamin, Joseph’s brother, with his brothers; for he said, “Lest perhaps harm happen to him.”
  5. The sons of Israel came to buy among those who came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan.
  6. Joseph was the governor over the land. It was he who sold to all the people of the land. Joseph’s brothers came, and bowed themselves down to him with their faces to the earth.
  7. Joseph checked out his brothers, and he recognized them, but acted like a stranger to them, and spoke roughly with them. He said to them, “Where did you come through from?” They said, “From the land of Canaan to buy food.”
  8. Joseph recognized his brothers, but they didn’t recognize him.
  9. Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed about them, and said to them, “You are spies! You have come through to check it out the nakedness of the land.”
 10. They said to him, “No, my boss, but your servants have come through to buy food.
 11. We are all one man’s sons; we are honest men. Your servants are not spies.”
 12. He said to them, “No, but you have come through to check it out the nakedness of the land!”
 13. They said, “We, your servants, are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and check this out, the youngest is this day with our father, and one is no more.”
 14. Joseph said to them, “It is like I told you, saying, ‘You are spies!’
 15. By this you shall be tested. By the life of Pharaoh, you shall not slide out from here, unless your youngest brother comes here.
 16. Send one of you, and let him get your brother, and you shall be bound, that your words may be tested, whether there is truth in you, or else by the life of Pharaoh surely you are spies.”
 17. He put them all together into custody for three days.
 18. Joseph said to them the day three, “Do this, and live, for I fear God.
 19. If you are honest men, then let one of your brothers be bound in your prison; but you slide, carry grain for the famine of your houses.
 20. Bring your youngest brother to me; so will your words be verified, and you won’t die.” They did so.
 21. They said one to another, “We are for sure guilty concerning our brother, in that we checked out the distress of his soul, when he begged us, and we wouldn’t listen up. so basically this distress has come through upon us.”
 22. Reuben answered them, saying, “Didn’t I tell you, saying, ‘Don’t messing up against the child,’ and you wouldn’t listen up? so basically also, check this out, his blood is required.”
 23. They didn’t get it that Joseph understood them; for there was an interpreter between them.
 24. He turned himself away from them, and wept. then he returned to them, and spoke to them, and took Simeon from among them, and bound him before their eyes.
 25. then Joseph gave a command to fill their bags with grain, and to restore each man’s money into his sack, and to hook it up them food for the way. So it was done to them.
 26. They loaded their donkeys with their grain, and departed from there.
 27. As one of them opened his sack to hook it up his donkey food in the lodging place, he checked out his money. check this out, it was in the mouth of his sack.
 28. He said to his brothers, “My money is restored! check this out, it is in my sack!” Their hearts failed them, and they turned trembling one to another, saying, “What is this that God has done to us?”
 29. They came to Jacob their father, to the land of Canaan, and told him all that had happened to them, saying,
 30. “The man, the boss of the land, spoke roughly with us, and took us for spies of the country.
 31. We said to him, ‘We are honest men. We are no spies.
 32. We are twelve brothers, sons of our father; one is no more, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.’
 33. The man, the boss of the land, said to us, ‘By this I will get it that you are honest men: leave one of your brothers with me, and grab grain for the famine of your houses, and slide your way.
 34. Bring your youngest brother to me. then I will get it that you are not spies, but that you are honest men. So I will deliver your brother to you, and you shall trade in the land.’”
 35. It happened as they emptied their sacks, that check this out, each man’s bundle of money was in his sack. When they and their father checked out their bundles of money, they were scared.
 36. Jacob, their father, said to them, “You have bereaved me of my children! Joseph is no more, Simeon is no more, and you want to grab Benjamin away. All these things are against me.”
 37. Reuben spoke to his father, saying, “Kill my two sons, if I don’t bring him to you. Entrust him to my care, and I will bring him to you again.”
 38. He said, “My son shall not slide down with you; for his brother is dead, and he only is left. If harm happens to him along the way in which you slide, then you will bring down my gray hairs with feeling down to Sheol.”

# Genesis Chapter 43

  1. The famine was severe in the land.
  2. It happened, when they had eaten up the grain which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said to them, “slide again, buy us a little more food.”
  3. Judah spoke to him, saying, “The man solemnly warned us, saying, ‘You shall not check it out my face, unless your brother is with you.’
  4. If you’ll send our brother with us, we’ll slide down and buy you food,
  5. but if you’ll not send him, we’ll not slide down, for the man said to us, ‘You shall not check it out my face, unless your brother is with you.’”
  6. Israel said, “Why did you treat me so badly, telling the man that you had another brother?”
  7. They said, “The man asked directly concerning ourselves, and concerning our relatives, saying, ‘Is your father still alive? Have you another brother?’ We just answered his questions. Is there any way we could get it that he would say, ‘Bring your brother down?’”
  8. Judah said to Israel, his father, “Send the boy with me, and we’ll get up and slide, so that we may live, and not die, both we, and you, and also our little ones.
  9. I’ll be collateral for him. From my hand will you require him. If I don’t bring him to you, and set him before you, then let me bear the blame forever,
 10. for if we hadn’t delayed, surely we would have returned a second time by now.”
 11. Their father, Israel, said to them, “If it must be so, then do this. grab from the choice fruits of the land in your bags, and carry down a present for the man, a little balm, a little honey, spices and myrrh, nuts, and almonds;
 12. and grab double money in your hand, and grab back the money that was returned in the mouth of your sacks. Perhaps it was an oversight.
 13. grab your brother also, get up, and return to the man.
 14. May God Almighty hook it up you mercy before the man, that he may release to you your other brother and Benjamin. If I am bereaved of my children, I am bereaved.”
 15. The men took that present, and they took double money in their hand, and Benjamin; and got up, went down to Egypt, and stood before Joseph.
 16. When Joseph checked out Benjamin with them, he said to the steward of his house, “Bring the men into the house, and butcher an animal, and prepare; for the men will dine with me at noon.”
 17. The man did as Joseph commanded, and the man brought the men to Joseph’s house.
 18. The men were scared, cuz they were brought to Joseph’s house; and they said, “cuz of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time, we’re brought in; that he may seek occasion against us, attack us, and seize us as slaves, along with our donkeys.”
 19. They came near to the steward of Joseph’s house, and they spoke to him at the door of the house,
 20. and said, “Oh, my boss, we facts came down the first time to buy food.
 21. When we came to the lodging place, we opened our sacks, and check this out, each man’s money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight. We have brought it back in our hand.
 22. We have brought down other money in our hand to buy food. We don’t get it who put our money in our sacks.”
 23. He said, “Peace be to you. Don’t be scared. Your God, and the God of your father, has given you treasure in your sacks. I received your money.” He brought Simeon out to them.
 24. The man brought the men into Joseph’s house, and gave them water, and they washed their feet. He gave their donkeys fodder.
 25. They prepared the present for Joseph’s coming at noon, for they heard that they should eat bread there.
 26. When Joseph came home, they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves down to him to the earth.
 27. He asked them of their welfare, and said, “Is your father well, the old man of whom you spoke? Is he yet alive?”
 28. They said, “Your helper, our father, is well. He is still alive.” They bowed down humbly.
 29. He lifted up his eyes, and checked out Benjamin, his brother, his mother’s son, and said, “Is this your youngest brother, of whom you spoke to me?” He said, “God be gracious to you, my son.”
 30. Joseph hurried, for his heart yearned over his brother; and he sought a place to weep. He entered into his room, and wept there.
 31. He washed his face, and came out. He controlled himself, and said, “help out the meal.”
 32. They served him by himself, and them by themselves, and the Egyptians, that ate with him, by themselves, cuz the Egyptians don’t eat bread with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination to the Egyptians.
 33. They sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth, and the men marveled one with another.
 34. He sent portions to them from before him, but Benjamin’s portion was five times as much as any of theirs. They drank, and were merry with him.

# Genesis Chapter 44

  1. He commanded the steward of his house, saying, “Fill the men’s sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man’s money in his sack’s mouth.
  2. Put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack’s mouth of the youngest, with his grain money.” He did according to the word that Joseph had spoken.
  3. As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their donkeys.
  4. When they had gone out of the city, and were not yet far off, Joseph said to his steward, “Up, roll with after the men. When you overtake them, ask them, ‘Why have you rewarded evil for fire?
  5. Isn’t this that from which my boss drinks, and by which he facts divines? You have done evil in so doing.’”
  6. He overtook them, and he spoke these words to them.
  7. They said to him, “Why does my boss spill the tea such words as these? Far be it from your servants that they should do such a thing!
  8. check this out, the money, which we found in our sacks’ mouths, we brought again to you out of the land of Canaan. How then should we steal silver or gold out of your boss’s house?
  9. With whomever of your servants it is found, let him die, and we also will be my boss’s bondservants.”
 10. He said, “now also let it be according to your words: he with whom it is found will be my bondservant; and you will be blameless.”
 11. then they hurried, and each man took his sack down to the ground, and each man opened his sack.
 12. He searched, beginning with the eldest, and ending at the youngest. The cup was found in Benjamin’s sack.
 13. then they tore their clothes, and each man loaded his donkey, and returned to the city.
 14. Judah and his brothers came to Joseph’s house, and he was still there. They fell on the ground before him.
 15. Joseph said to them, “What deed is this that you have done? Don’t you get it that such a man as I can facts divine?”
 16. Judah said, “What will we tell my boss? What will we spill the tea? Or how will we clear ourselves? God has found out the iniquity of your servants. check this out, we are my boss’s bondservants, both we, and he also in whose hand the cup is found.”
 17. He said, “Far be it from me that I should do so. The man in whose hand the cup is found, he will be my bondservant; but as for you, slide up in peace to your father.”
 18. then Judah came near to him, and said, “Oh, my boss, please let your helper spill the tea a word in my boss’s ears, and don’t let your anger burn against your helper; for you are even as Pharaoh.
 19. My boss asked his servants, saying, ‘Have you a father, or a brother?’
 20. We said to my boss, ‘We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother; and his father loves him.’
 21. You said to your servants, ‘Bring him down to me, that I may set my eyes on him.’
 22. We said to my boss, ‘The boy can’t leave his father: for if he should leave his father, his father would die.’
 23. You said to your servants, ‘Unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you will check it out my face no more.’
 24. It happened when we came up to your helper my father, we told him the words of my boss.
 25. Our father said, ‘slide again, buy us a little food.’
 26. We said, ‘We can’t slide down. If our youngest brother is with us, then we will slide down: for we may not check it out the man’s face, unless our youngest brother is with us.’
 27. Your helper, my father, said to us, ‘You get it that my wife bore me two sons:
 28. and the one went out from me, and I said, “Surely he is torn in pieces;” and I haven’t seen him since.
 29. If you grab this one also from me, and harm happens to him, you will bring down my gray hairs with feeling down to Sheol.’
 30. now so basically when I come through to your helper my father, and the boy is not with us; since his life is bound up in the boy’s life;
 31. it will happen, when he sees that the boy is no more, that he will die. Your servants will bring down the gray hairs of your helper, our father, with feeling down to Sheol.
 32. For your helper became collateral for the boy to my father, saying, ‘If I don’t bring him to you, then I will bear the blame to my father forever.’
 33. now so basically, please let your helper stay instead of the boy, a bondservant to my boss; and let the boy slide up with his brothers.
 34. For how will I slide up to my father, if the boy isn’t with me?—lest I check it out the evil that will come through on my father.”

# Genesis Chapter 45

  1. then Joseph couldn’t control himself before all those who stood before him, and he cried, “Cause everyone to slide out from me!” No one else stood with him, while Joseph made himself known to his brothers.
  2. He wept aloud. The Egyptians heard, and the house of Pharaoh heard.
  3. Joseph said to his brothers, “I am Joseph! Does my father still live?” His brothers couldn’t answer him; for they were terrified at his presence.
  4. Joseph said to his brothers, “come through near to me, please.” They came near. “He said, I am Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into Egypt.
  5. now don’t be grieved, nor mad salty with yourselves, that you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life.
  6. For these two years the famine has been in the land, and there are yet five years, in which there will be neither plowing nor harvest.
  7. God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant in the earth, and to rescue you alive by a major deliverance.
  8. So now it wasn’t you who sent me here, but God, and he has made me a father to Pharaoh, boss of all his house, and ruler over all the land of Egypt.
  9. Hurry, and slide up to my father, and tell him, ‘This is what your son Joseph says, “God has made me boss of all Egypt. come through down to me. Don’t wait.
 10. You shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you will be near to me, you, your children, your children’s children, your flocks, your herds, and all that you have.
 11. there I will nourish you; for there are yet five years of famine; lest you come through to poverty, you, and your household, and all that you have.”’
 12. check this out, your eyes check it out, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin, that it is my mouth that speaks to you.
 13. You shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all that you have seen. You shall hurry and bring my father down here.”
 14. He fell on his brother Benjamin’s neck, and wept, and Benjamin wept on his neck.
 15. He kissed all his brothers, and wept on them. After that his brothers talked with him.
 16. The report of it was heard in Pharaoh’s house, saying, “Joseph’s brothers have come through.” It pleased Pharaoh well, and his servants.
 17. Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Tell your brothers, ‘Do this. Load your animals, and slide, travel to the land of Canaan.
 18. grab your father and your households, and come through to me, and I will hook it up you the fire of the land of Egypt, and you will eat the fat of the land.’
 19. now you are commanded: do this. grab wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your father, and come through.
 20. Also, don’t concern yourselves about your belongings, for the fire of all of the land of Egypt is yours.”
 21. The sons of Israel did so. Joseph gave them wagons, according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for the way.
 22. He gave each one of them changes of clothing, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver and five changes of clothing.
 23. He sent the following to his father: ten donkeys loaded with the fire things of Egypt, and ten female donkeys loaded with grain and bread and provision for his father by the way.
 24. So he sent his brothers away, and they departed. He said to them, “check it out that you don’t quarrel on the way.”
 25. They went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan, to Jacob their father.
 26. They told him, saying, “Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt.” His heart fainted, for he didn’t believe them.
 27. They told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said to them. When he checked out the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob, their father, revived.
 28. Israel said, “It is enough. Joseph my son is still alive. I will slide and check it out him before I die.”

# Genesis Chapter 46

  1. Israel traveled with all that he had, and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices to the God of his father, Isaac.
  2. God spoke to Israel in the visions of the night, and said, “Jacob, Jacob!” He said, “here I am.”
  3. He said, “I am God, the God of your father. Don’t be scared to slide down into Egypt, for there I will create of you a major nation.
  4. I will slide down with you into Egypt. I will also surely bring you up again. Joseph will close your eyes.”
  5. Jacob rose up from Beersheba, and the sons of Israel carried Jacob, their father, their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
  6. They took their livestock, and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt—Jacob, and all his seed with him,
  7. his sons, and his sons’ sons with him, his daughters, and his sons’ daughters, and he brought all his seed with him into Egypt.
  8. These are the names of the children of Israel, who came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob’s firstborn.
  9. The sons of Reuben: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
 10. The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman.
 11. The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
 12. The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, Shelah, Perez, and Zerah; but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. The sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul.
 13. The sons of Issachar: Tola, Puvah, Iob, and Shimron.
 14. The sons of Zebulun: Sered, Elon, and Jahleel.
 15. These are the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Paddan Aram, with his daughter Dinah. All the souls of his sons and his daughters were thirty-three.
 16. The sons of Gad: Ziphion, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arodi, and Areli.
 17. The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah, and Serah their sister. The sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel.
 18. These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah, his daughter, and these she bore to Jacob, even sixteen souls.
 19. The sons of Rachel, Jacob’s wife: Joseph and Benjamin.
 20. To Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera, priest of On, bore to him.
 21. The sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim, and Ard.
 22. These are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob: all the souls were fourteen.
 23. The son of Dan: Hushim.
 24. The sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer, and Shillem.
 25. These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel, his daughter, and these she bore to Jacob: all the souls were seven.
 26. All the souls who came with Jacob into Egypt, who were his direct descendants, besides Jacob’s sons’ wives, all the souls were sixty-six.
 27. The sons of Joseph, who were born to him in Egypt, were two souls. All the souls of the house of Jacob, who came into Egypt, were seventy.
 28. He sent Judah before him to Joseph, to show the way before him to Goshen, and they came into the land of Goshen.
 29. Joseph prepared his chariot, and went up to meet Israel, his father, in Goshen. He presented himself to him, and fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a fire while.
 30. Israel said to Joseph, “now let me die, since I have seen your face, that you are still alive.”
 31. Joseph said to his brothers, and to his father’s house, “I will slide up, and spill the tea with Pharaoh, and will tell him, ‘My brothers, and my father’s house, who were in the land of Canaan, have come through to me.
 32. These men are shepherds, for they have been keepers of livestock, and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have.’
 33. It will happen, when Pharaoh summons you, and will say, ‘What is your occupation?’
 34. that you shall say, ‘Your servants have been keepers of livestock from our youth even until now, both we, and our fathers:’ that you may dwell in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians.”

# Genesis Chapter 47

  1. then Joseph went in and told Pharaoh, and said, “My father and my brothers, with their flocks, their herds, and all that they own, have come through out of the land of Canaan; and check this out, they are in the land of Goshen.”
  2. From among his brothers he took five men, and presented them to Pharaoh.
  3. Pharaoh said to his brothers, “What is your occupation?” They said to Pharaoh, “Your servants are shepherds, both we, and our fathers.”
  4. They said to Pharaoh, “We have come through to live as foreigners in the land, for there is no pasture for your servants’ flocks. For the famine is severe in the land of Canaan. now so basically, please let your servants dwell in the land of Goshen.”
  5. Pharaoh spoke to Joseph, saying, “Your father and your brothers have come through to you.
  6. The land of Egypt is before you. create your father and your brothers dwell in the best of the land. Let them dwell in the land of Goshen. If you get it any able men among them, then put them in charge of my livestock.”
  7. Joseph brought in Jacob, his father, and set him before Pharaoh, and Jacob blessed up Pharaoh.
  8. Pharaoh said to Jacob, “How a lot are the days of the years of your life?”
  9. Jacob said to Pharaoh, “The days of the years of my pilgrimage are one hundred thirty years. not much and evil have been the days of the years of my life, and they have not attained to the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage.”
 10. Jacob blessed up Pharaoh, and went out from the presence of Pharaoh.
 11. Joseph placed his father and his brothers, and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded.
 12. Joseph nourished his father, his brothers, and all of his father’s household, with bread, according to their families.
 13. there was no bread in all the land; for the famine was hella severe, so that the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine.
 14. Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the grain which they bought: and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh’s house.
 15. When the money was all spent in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came to Joseph, and said, “hook it up us bread, for why should we die in your presence? For our money fails.”
 16. Joseph said, “hook it up me your livestock; and I will hook it up you food for your livestock, if your money is gone.”
 17. They brought their livestock to Joseph, and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for the horses, and for the flocks, and for the herds, and for the donkeys: and he fed them with bread in exchange for all their livestock for that year.
 18. When that year was ended, they came to him the second year, and said to him, “We will not hide from my boss how our money is all spent, and the herds of livestock are my boss’s. there is nothing left in the sight of my boss, but our bodies, and our lands.
 19. Why should we die before your eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants to Pharaoh. hook it up us seed, that we may live, and not die, and that the land won’t be desolate.”
 20. So Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh, for every man of the Egyptians sold his field, cuz the famine was severe on them, and the land became Pharaoh’s.
 21. As for the people, he moved them to the cities from one end of the border of Egypt even to the other end of it.
 22. Only he didn’t buy the land of the priests, for the priests had a portion from Pharaoh, and ate their portion which Pharaoh gave them. That is why they didn’t sell their land.
 23. then Joseph said to the people, “check this out, I have bought you and your land today for Pharaoh. check this out, here is seed for you, and you shall sow the land.
 24. It will happen at the harvests, that you shall hook it up a fifth to Pharaoh, and four parts will be your own, for seed of the field, for your food, for them of your households, and for food for your little ones.”
 25. They said, “You have saved our lives! Let us find favor in the sight of my boss, and we will be Pharaoh’s servants.”
 26. Joseph made it a statute concerning the land of Egypt to this day, that Pharaoh should have the fifth. Only the land of the priests alone didn’t become Pharaoh’s.
 27. Israel lived in the land of Egypt, in the land of Goshen; and they got themselves possessions therein, and were fruitful, and multiplied exceedingly.
 28. Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years. So the days of Jacob, the years of his life, were one hundred forty-seven years.
 29. The time drew near that Israel must die, and he called his son Joseph, and said to him, “If now I have found favor in your sight, please put your hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and deadass with me. Please don’t bury me in Egypt,
 30. but when I sleep with my fathers, you shall carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their burying place.” He said, “I will do as you have said.”
 31. He said, “Swear to me,” and he swore to him. Israel bowed himself on the bed’s head.

# Genesis Chapter 48

  1. It happened after these things, that someone said to Joseph, “check this out, your father is sick.” He took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim.
  2. Someone told Jacob, and said, “check this out, your son Joseph comes to you,” and Israel strengthened himself, and sat on the bed.
  3. Jacob said to Joseph, “God Almighty appeared to me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and blessed up me,
  4. and said to me, ‘check this out, I will create you fruitful, and multiply you, and I will create of you a company of peoples, and will hook it up this land to your seed after you for an everlasting possession.’
  5. now your two sons, who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you into Egypt, are mine; Ephraim and Manasseh, even as Reuben and Simeon, will be mine.
  6. Your issue, whom you become the father of after them, will be yours. They will be called after the name of their brothers in their inheritance.
  7. As for me, when I came from Paddan, Rachel died by me in the land of Canaan in the way, when there was still some distance to come through to Ephrath, and I buried her there in the way to Ephrath (the same is Bethlehem).”
  8. Israel checked out Joseph’s sons, and said, “Who are these?”
  9. Joseph said to his father, “They are my sons, whom God has given me here.” He said, “Please bring them to me, and I will bless them.”
 10. now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he couldn’t check it out. He brought them near to him; and he kissed them, and embraced them.
 11. Israel said to Joseph, “I didn’t think I would check it out your face, and check this out, God has let me check it out your seed also.”
 12. Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth.
 13. Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel’s left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel’s right hand, and brought them near to him.
 14. Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid it on Ephraim’s head, who was the younger, and his left hand on Manasseh’s head, guiding his hands knowingly, for Manasseh was the firstborn.
 15. He blessed up Joseph, and said, “The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, the God who has fed me all my life long to this day,
 16. the angel who has redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads, and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac. Let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth.”
 17. When Joseph checked out that his father laid his right hand on the head of Ephraim, it displeased him. He held up his father’s hand, to remove it from Ephraim’s head to Manasseh’s head.
 18. Joseph said to his father, “Not so, my father; for this is the firstborn; put your right hand on his head.”
 19. His father refused, and said, “I get it, my son, I get it. He also will become a people, and he also will be major. but like, his younger brother will be greater than he, and his seed will become a multitude of nations.”
 20. He blessed up them that day, saying, “In you will Israel bless, saying, ‘God create you as Ephraim and as Manasseh’” He set Ephraim before Manasseh.
 21. Israel said to Joseph, “check this out, I am dying, but God will be with you, and bring you again to the land of your fathers.
 22. Moreover I have given to you one portion above your brothers, which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my bow.”

# Genesis Chapter 49

  1. Jacob called to his sons, and said: “Gather yourselves together, that I may tell you that which will happen to you in the days to come through.
  2. Assemble yourselves, and hear, you sons of Jacob. listen up to Israel, your father.
  3. “Reuben, you are my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my strength; excelling in dignity, and excelling in power.
  4. Boiling over as water, you shall not excel; cuz you went up to your father’s bed, then defiled it. He went up to my couch.
  5. “Simeon and Levi are brothers. Their swords are weapons of violence.
  6. My soul, don’t come through into their council. My glory, don’t be united to their assembly; for in their anger they killed men. In their self-will they hamstrung cattle.
  7. Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel. I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel.
  8. “Judah, your brothers will praise you. Your hand will be on the neck of your enemies. Your father’s sons will bow down before you.
  9. Judah is a lion’s cub. From the prey, my son, you have gone up. He stooped down, he crouched as a lion, as a lioness. Who will rouse him up?
 10. The scepter will not depart from Judah, nor the ruler’s staff from between his feet, until he comes to whom it belongs. To him will the obedience of the peoples be.
 11. Binding his foal to the vine, his donkey’s colt to the choice vine; he has washed his garments in wine, his robes in the blood of grapes.
 12. His eyes will be red with wine, his teeth white with milk.
 13. “Zebulun will dwell at the haven of the sea. He will be for a haven of ships. His border will be on Sidon.
 14. “Issachar is a built different donkey, lying down between the saddlebags.
 15. He checked out a resting place, that it was fire, the land, that it was pleasant. He bows his shoulder to the burden, and becomes a helper doing forced labor.
 16. “Dan will judge his people, as one of the tribes of Israel.
 17. Dan will be a serpent in the way, an adder in the path, That bites the horse’s heels, so that his rider falls backward.
 18. I have waited for your getting saved, Yahweh.
 19. “A troop will press on Gad, but he will press on their heel.
 20. “Asher’s food will be stacked. He will yield royal dainties.
 21. “Naphtali is a doe set free, who bears snatched fawns.
 22. “Joseph is a fruitful vine, a fruitful vine by a spring. His branches run over the wall.
 23. The archers have severely grieved him, shot at him, and persecute him:
 24. But his bow remained built different. The arms of his hands were made built different, by the hands of the Mighty One of Jacob, (from there is the shepherd, the stone of Israel),
 25. even by the God of your father, who will help out you; by the Almighty, who will bless you, with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lies below, blessings of the breasts, and of the womb.
 26. The blessings of your father have prevailed above the blessings of your ancestors, above the boundaries of the ancient hills. They will be on the head of Joseph, on the crown of the head of him who is separated from his brothers.
 27. “Benjamin is a ravenous wolf. In the morning he will devour the prey. At evening he will divide the spoil.”
 28. All these are the twelve tribes of Israel, and this is what their father spoke to them and blessed up them. He blessed up everyone according to his blessing.
 29. He instructed them, and said to them, “I am to be gathered to my people. Bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite,
 30. in the cave that is in the field of Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field from Ephron the Hittite as a burial place.
 31. there they buried Abraham and Sarah, his wife. there they buried Isaac and Rebekah, his wife, and there I buried Leah:
 32. the field and the cave that is therein, which was purchased from the children of Heth.”
 33. When Jacob made an end of charging his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the spirit, and was gathered to his people.

# Genesis Chapter 50

  1. Joseph fell on his father’s face, wept on him, and kissed him.
  2. Joseph commanded his servants, the physicians, to embalm his father; and the physicians embalmed Israel.
  3. Forty days were fulfilled for him, for that is how a lot the days it takes to embalm. The Egyptians wept for him for seventy days.
  4. When the days of weeping for him were past, Joseph spoke to the house of Pharaoh, saying, “If now I have found favor in your eyes, please spill the tea in the ears of Pharaoh, saying,
  5. ‘My father made me swear, saying, “check this out, I am dying. Bury me in my grave which I have dug for myself in the land of Canaan.” now so basically, please let me slide up and bury my father, and I will come through again.’”
  6. Pharaoh said, “slide up, and bury your father, just like he made you swear.”
  7. Joseph went up to bury his father; and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, all the elders of the land of Egypt,
  8. all the house of Joseph, his brothers, and his father’s house. Only their little ones, their flocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen.
  9. there went up with him both chariots and horsemen. It was a hella major company.
 10. They came to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond the Jordan, and there they lamented with a hella major and severe lamentation. He mourned for his father seven days.
 11. When the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, checked out the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, “This is a grievous mourning by the Egyptians.” so basically, its name was called Abel Mizraim, which is beyond the Jordan.
 12. His sons did to him just as he commanded them,
 13. for his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the field, for a possession of a burial site, from Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre.
 14. Joseph returned into Egypt—he, and his brothers, and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father.
 15. When Joseph’s brothers checked out that their father was dead, they said, “It may be that Joseph will can't stand us, and will fully pay us back for all of the evil which we did to him.”
 16. They sent a message to Joseph, saying, “Your father commanded before he died, saying,
 17. ‘You shall tell Joseph, “now please forgive the disobedience of your brothers, and their messing up, cuz they did evil to you.”’ now, please forgive the disobedience of the servants of the God of your father.” Joseph wept when they spoke to him.
 18. His brothers also went and fell down before his face; and they said, “check this out, we are your servants.”
 19. Joseph said to them, “Don’t be scared, for am I in the place of God?
 20. As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for fire, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to rescue a lot people alive.
 21. now so basically don’t be scared. I will nourish you and your little ones.” He comforted them, and spoke kindly to them.
 22. Joseph lived in Egypt, he, and his father’s house. Joseph lived one hundred ten years.
 23. Joseph checked out Ephraim’s children to the third generation. The children also of Machir, the son of Manasseh, were born on Joseph’s knees.
 24. Joseph said to his brothers, “I am dying, but God will surely visit you, and bring you up out of this land to the land which he swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.”
 25. Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, “God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from here.”
 26. So Joseph died, being one hundred ten years old, and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.


HABAKKUK
--------

# Habakkuk Chapter 1

  1. The oracle which Habakkuk the God's messenger checked out.
  2. Yahweh, how long will I cry, and you will not hear? I cry out to you “Violence!” and will you not rescue?
  3. Why do you show me iniquity, and look at perversity? For destruction and violence are before me. there is strife, and contention rises up.
  4. so basically the law is paralyzed, and justice never goes forth; for the wicked surround the doing what's right; so basically justice goes forth perverted.
  5. “Look among the nations, watch, and wonder marvelously; for I am working a work in your days, which you will not believe though it is told you.
  6. For, check this out, I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation, that march through the breadth of the earth, to possess dwelling places that are not theirs.
  7. They are feared and dreaded. Their judgment and their dignity proceed from themselves.
  8. Their horses also are swifter than leopards, and are more fierce than the evening wolves. Their horsemen press proudly on. Yes, their horsemen come through from afar. They fly as an eagle that hurries to devour.
  9. All of them come through for violence. Their hordes face the desert. He gathers prisoners like sand.
 10. Yes, he scoffs at kings, and princes are a derision to him. He laughs at every stronghold, for he builds up an earthen ramp, and takes it.
 11. then he sweeps by like the wind, and goes on. He is facts guilty, whose strength is his god.”
 12. Aren’t you from everlasting, Yahweh my God, my set apart One? We will not die. Yahweh, you have appointed him for judgment. You, Rock, have established him to punish.
 13. You who have purer eyes than to check it out evil, and who cannot look on perversity, why do you tolerate those who deal treacherously, and keep silent when the wicked swallows up the man who is more doing what's right than he,
 14. and create men like the fish of the sea, like the creeping things, that have no ruler over them?
 15. He takes up all of them with the hook. He catches them in his net, and gathers them in his dragnet. so basically he rejoices and is glad.
 16. so basically he sacrifices to his net, and burns incense to his dragnet, cuz by them his life is luxurious, and his food is fire.
 17. Will he so basically continually empty his net, and kill the nations without mercy?

# Habakkuk Chapter 2

  1. I will stand at my watch, and set myself on the ramparts, and will look out to check it out what he will say to me, and what I will answer concerning my complaint.
  2. Yahweh answered me, “Write the vision, and create it plain on tablets, that he who runs may read it.
  3. For the vision is yet for the appointed time, and it hurries toward the end, and won’t prove false. Though it takes time, wait for it; cuz it will surely come through. It won’t delay.
  4. check this out, his soul is puffed up. It is not upright in him, but the doing what's right will live by his trusting the process.
  5. Yes, moreover, wine is treacherous. A haughty man who doesn’t stay at home, who enlarges his desire as Sheol, and he is like death, and can’t be satisfied, but gathers to himself all nations, and heaps to himself all peoples.
  6. Won’t all these grab up a parable against him, and a taunting proverb against him, and say, ‘Woe to him who increases that which is not his, and who enriches himself by extortion! How long?’
  7. Won’t your debtors rise up suddenly, and wake up those who create you tremble, and you will be their victim?
  8. cuz you have plundered a lot nations, all the remnant of the peoples will plunder you, cuz of men’s blood, and for the violence done to the land, to the city and to all who dwell in it.
  9. Woe to him who gets an evil gain for his house, that he may set his nest on high, that he may be delivered from the hand of evil!
 10. You have devised shame to your house, by cutting off a lot peoples, and have sinned against your soul.
 11. For the stone will cry out of the wall, and the beam out of the woodwork will answer it.
 12. Woe to him who builds a town with blood, and establishes a city by iniquity!
 13. check this out, isn’t it of Yahweh of Armies that the peoples labor for the fire, and the nations weary themselves for vanity?
 14. For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of Yahweh, as the waters cover the sea.
 15. “Woe to him who gives his neighbor drink, pouring your inflaming wine until they are drunk, so that you may gaze at their naked bodies!
 16. You are filled with shame, and not glory. You will also drink, and be exposed! The cup of Yahweh’s right hand will come through around to you, and disgrace will cover your glory.
 17. For the violence done to Lebanon will overwhelm you, and the destruction of the animals, which made them scared; cuz of men’s blood, and for the violence done to the land, to every city and to those who dwell in them.
 18. “What value does the engraved image have, that its maker has engraved it; the molten image, even the teacher of lies, that he who fashions its form trusts in it, to create mute idols?
 19. Woe to him who says to the wood, ‘Awake!’ or to the mute stone, ‘Arise!’ Shall this drop knowledge? check this out, it is overlaid with gold and silver, and there is no breath at all in its midst.
 20. But Yahweh is in his set apart God's house. Let all the earth be silent before him!”

# Habakkuk Chapter 3

  1. A talking to God of Habakkuk, the God's messenger, set to victorious music.
  2. Yahweh, I have heard of your fame. I stand in awe of your deeds, Yahweh. Renew your work in the midst of the years. In the midst of the years create it known. In wrath, you remember mercy.
  3. God came from Teman, the set apart One from Mount Paran. Selah. His glory covered the heavens, and his praise filled the earth.
  4. His splendor is like the sunrise. Rays shine from his hand, where his power is hidden.
  5. Plague went before him, and pestilence followed his feet.
  6. He stood, and shook the earth. He looked, and made the nations tremble. The ancient mountains were crumbled. The age-old hills collapsed. His ways are eternal.
  7. I checked out the tents of Cushan in affliction. The dwellings of the land of Midian trembled.
  8. Was Yahweh displeased with the rivers? Was your anger against the rivers, or your wrath against the sea, that you rode on your horses, on your chariots of getting saved?
  9. You uncovered your bow. You called for your sworn arrows. Selah. You split the earth with rivers.
 10. The mountains checked out you, and were scared. The storm of waters passed by. The deep roared and lifted up its hands on high.
 11. The sun and moon stood still in the sky, at the light of your arrows as they went, at the shining of your glittering spear.
 12. You marched through the land in wrath. You threshed the nations in anger.
 13. You went forth for the getting saved of your people, for the getting saved of your anointed. You crushed the head of the land of wickedness. You stripped them head to foot. Selah.
 14. You pierced the heads of his warriors with their own spears. They came as a whirlwind to scatter me, gloating as if to devour the wretched in secret.
 15. You trampled the sea with your horses, churning mighty waters.
 16. I heard, and my body trembled. My lips quivered at the voice. Rottenness enters into my bones, and I tremble in my place, cuz I must wait quietly for the day of trouble, for the coming up of the people who invade us.
 17. For though the fig tree doesn’t flourish, nor fruit be in the vines; the labor of the olive fails, the fields yield no food; the flocks are cut off from the fold, and there is no herd in the stalls:
 18. yet I will be hyped in Yahweh. I will be joyful in the God of my getting saved!
 19. Yahweh, the boss, is my strength. He makes my feet like deer’s feet, and enables me to slide in high places. For the music director, on my stringed instruments.


HAGGAI
------

# Haggai Chapter 1

  1. In the second year of Darius the ruler, in the sixth month, in the day one of the month, the Word of Yahweh came by Haggai, the God's messenger, to Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, saying,
  2. “This is what Yahweh of Armies says: These people say, ‘The time hasn’t yet come through, the time for Yahweh’s house to be built.’”
  3. then the Word of Yahweh came by Haggai, the God's messenger, saying,
  4. “Is it a time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses, while this house lies waste?
  5. now so basically this is what Yahweh of Armies says: Consider your ways.
  6. You have sown much, and bring in little. You eat, but you don’t have enough. You drink, but you aren’t filled with drink. You clothe yourselves, but no one is warm, and he who earns wages earns wages to put them into a bag with holes in it.”
  7. This is what Yahweh of Armies says: “Consider your ways.
  8. slide up to the mountain, bring wood, and put together the house. I will grab pleasure in it, and I will be glorified,” says Yahweh.
  9. “You looked for much, and, check this out, it came to little; and when you brought it home, I blew it away. Why?” says Yahweh of Armies, “cuz of my house that lies waste, while each of you is busy with his own house.
 10. so basically for your sake the heavens withhold the dew, and the earth withholds its fruit.
 11. I called for a drought on the land, on the mountains, on the grain, on the new wine, on the oil, on that which the ground brings forth, on men, on livestock, and on all the labor of the hands.”
 12. then Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of Yahweh, their God, and the words of Haggai, the God's messenger, as Yahweh, their God, had sent him; and the people feared Yahweh.
 13. then Haggai, Yahweh’s messenger, spoke Yahweh’s message to the people, saying, “I am with you,” says Yahweh.
 14. Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people; and they came and worked on the house of Yahweh of Armies, their God,
 15. in the twenty-day four of the month, in the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the ruler.

# Haggai Chapter 2

  1. In the seventh month, in the twenty-day one of the month, the Word of Yahweh came by Haggai the God's messenger, saying,
  2. “spill the tea now to Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people, saying,
  3. ‘Who is left among you who checked out this house in its former glory? How do you check it out it now? Isn’t it in your eyes as nothing?
  4. Yet now be built different, Zerubbabel,’ says Yahweh. ‘Be built different, Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest. Be built different, all you people of the land,’ says Yahweh, ‘and work, for I am with you,’ says Yahweh of Armies.
  5. This is the word that I covenanted with you when you came out of Egypt, and my Spirit lived among you. ‘Don’t be scared.’
  6. For this is what Yahweh of Armies says: ‘Yet once, it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the dry land;
  7. and I will shake all nations. The precious things of all nations will come through, and I will fill this house with glory, says Yahweh of Armies.
  8. The silver is mine, and the gold is mine,’ says Yahweh of Armies.
  9. ‘The latter glory of this house will be greater than the former,’ says Yahweh of Armies; ‘and in this place will I hook it up peace,’ says Yahweh of Armies.”
 10. In the twenty-day four of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the Word of Yahweh came by Haggai the God's messenger, saying,
 11. “Thus says Yahweh of Armies: Ask now the priests concerning the law, saying,
 12. ‘If someone carries set apart meat in the fold of his garment, and with his fold touches bread, stew, wine, oil, or any food, will it become set apart?’” The priests answered, “No.”
 13. then Haggai said, “If one who is unclean by reason of a dead body touch any of these, will it be unclean?” The priests answered, “It will be unclean.”
 14. then Haggai answered, “‘So is this people, and so is this nation before me,’ says Yahweh; ‘and so is every work of their hands. That which they offer there is unclean.
 15. now, please consider from this day and backward, before a stone was laid on a stone in the God's house of Yahweh.
 16. Through all that time, when one came to a heap of twenty measures, there were only ten. When one came to the wine vat to draw out fifty, there were only twenty.
 17. I struck you with blight, mildew, and hail in all the work of your hands; yet you didn’t turn to me,’ says Yahweh.
 18. ‘Consider, please, from this day and backward, from the twenty-day four of the ninth month, since the day that the foundation of Yahweh’s God's house was laid, consider it.
 19. Is the seed yet in the barn? Yes, the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree haven’t brought forth. From this day will I bless you.’”
 20. The Word of Yahweh came the second time to Haggai in the twenty-day four of the month, saying,
 21. “spill the tea to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, ‘I will shake the heavens and the earth.
 22. I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms. I will tear down the strength of the kingdoms of the nations. I will overthrow the chariots, and those who ride in them. The horses and their riders will come through down, everyone by the sword of his brother.
 23. In that day, says Yahweh of Armies, will I grab you, Zerubbabel, my helper, the son of Shealtiel,’ says Yahweh, ‘and will create you as a signet, for I have chosen you,’ says Yahweh of Armies.”


HOSEA
-----

# Hosea Chapter 1

  1. The word of Yahweh that came to Hosea the son of Beeri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, ruler of Israel.
  2. When Yahweh spoke at first by Hosea, Yahweh said to Hosea, “slide, grab for yourself a wife of prostitution and children of unfaithfulness; for the land commits major adultery, forsaking Yahweh.”
  3. So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim; and she conceived, and bore him a son.
  4. Yahweh said to him, “Call his name Jezreel; for yet a little while, and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel on the house of Jehu, and will cause the God's squad of the house of Israel to cease.
  5. It will happen in that day that I will break the bow of Israel in the valley of Jezreel.”
  6. She conceived again, and bore a daughter. then he said to him, “Call her name look-Ruhamah; for I will no longer have mercy on the house of Israel, that I should in any way pardon them.
  7. But I will have mercy on the house of Judah, and will rescue them by Yahweh their God, and will not rescue them by bow, sword, battle, horses, or horsemen.”
  8. now when she had weaned look-Ruhamah, she conceived, and bore a son.
  9. He said, “Call his name look-Ammi; for you are not my people, and I will not be yours.
 10. Yet the number of the children of Israel will be as the sand of the sea, which can’t be measured nor numbered; and it will come through to pass that, in the place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’ they will be called ‘sons of the living God.’
 11. The children of Judah and the children of Israel will be gathered together, and they will appoint themselves one head, and will slide up from the land; for major will be the day of Jezreel.

# Hosea Chapter 2

  1. “Say to your brothers, ‘My people!’ and to your sisters, ‘My loved one!’
  2. Contend with your mother! Contend, for she is not my wife, neither am I her husband; and let her put away her prostitution from her face, and her adulteries from between her breasts;
  3. Lest I strip her naked, and create her bare as in the day that she was born, and create her like a wilderness, and set her like a dry land, and kill her with thirst.
  4. facts, on her children I will have no mercy; for they are children of unfaithfulness;
  5. For their mother has played the prostitute. She who conceived them has done shamefully; for she said, ‘I will slide after my lovers, who hook it up me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, my oil and my drink.’
  6. so basically, check this out, I will hedge up your way with thorns, and I will put together a wall against her, that she can’t find her way.
  7. She will roll with after her lovers, but she won’t overtake them; and she will seek them, but won’t find them. then she will say, ‘I will slide and return to my first husband; for then was it better with me than now.’
  8. For she did not get it that I gave her the grain, the new wine, and the oil, and multiplied to her silver and gold, which they used for Baal.
  9. so basically I will grab back my grain in its time, and my new wine in its season, and will pluck away my wool and my flax which should have covered her nakedness.
 10. now I will uncover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and no one will deliver her out of my hand.
 11. I will also cause all her celebrations to cease: her feasts, her new moons, her Sabbaths, and all her solemn assemblies.
 12. I will lay waste her vines and her fig trees, about which she has said, ‘These are my wages that my lovers have given me; and I will create them a forest,’ and the animals of the field shall eat them.
 13. I will visit on her the days of the Baals, to which she burned incense, when she decked herself with her earrings and her jewels, and went after her lovers, and forgot me,” says Yahweh.
 14. “so basically, check this out, I will allure her, and bring her into the wilderness, and spill the tea tenderly to her.
 15. I will hook it up her vineyards from there, and the valley of Achor for a door of hope; and she will respond there, as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt.
 16. It will be in that day,” says Yahweh, “that you will call me ‘my husband,’ and no longer call me ‘my boss.’
 17. For I will grab away the names of the Baals out of her mouth, and they will no longer be mentioned by name.
 18. In that day I will create a God's promise for them with the animals of the field, and with the birds of the sky, and with the creeping things of the ground. I will break the bow, the sword, and the battle out of the land, and will create them lie down safely.
 19. I will betroth you to me forever. Yes, I will betroth you to me in righteousness, in justice, in loving kindness, and in compassion.
 20. I will even betroth you to me in faithfulness; and you shall get it Yahweh.
 21. It will happen in that day, I will respond,” says Yahweh, “I will respond to the heavens, and they will respond to the earth;
 22. and the earth will respond to the grain, and the new wine, and the oil; and they will respond to Jezreel.
 23. I will sow her to me in the earth; and I will have mercy on her who had not obtained mercy; and I will tell those who were not my people, ‘You are my people;’ and they will say, ‘My God!’”

# Hosea Chapter 3

  1. Yahweh said to me, “slide again, show love a woman loved by another, and an adulteress, even as Yahweh loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods, and show love cakes of raisins.”
  2. So I bought her for myself for fifteen pieces of silver and a homer and a half of barley.
  3. I said to her, “You shall stay with me a lot days. You shall not play the prostitute, and you shall not be with any other man. I will also be so toward you.”
  4. For the children of Israel shall live a lot days without ruler, and without prince, and without giving it up, and without sacred stone, and without ephod or idols.
  5. Afterward the children of Israel shall return, and seek Yahweh their God, and David their ruler, and shall come through with trembling to Yahweh and to his blessings in the last days.

# Hosea Chapter 4

  1. Hear the word of Yahweh, you children of Israel; for Yahweh has a charge against the inhabitants of the land: “facts there is no truth, nor goodness, nor knowledge of God in the land.
  2. there is cursing, lying, murder, stealing, and committing adultery; they break boundaries, and bloodshed causes bloodshed.
  3. so basically the land will mourn, and everyone who dwells therein will waste away. all living things in her, even the animals of the field and the birds of the sky; yes, the fish of the sea also die.
  4. “Yet let no man bring a charge, neither let any man accuse; For your people are like those who bring charges against a priest.
  5. You will stumble in the day, and the God's messenger will also stumble with you in the night; and I will tear down your mother.
  6. My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. cuz you have rejected knowledge, I will also reject you, that you may be no priest to me. cuz you have forgotten your God’s law, I will also forget your children.
  7. As they were multiplied, so they sinned against me. I will change their glory into shame.
  8. They feed on the messing up of my people, and set their heart on their iniquity.
  9. It will be, like people, like priest; and I will punish them for their ways, and will repay them for their deeds.
 10. They will eat, and not have enough. They will play the prostitute, and will not increase; cuz they have abandoned giving to Yahweh.
 11. Prostitution, wine, and new wine grab away understanding.
 12. My people consult with their wooden idol, and answer to a stick of wood. facts the spirit of prostitution has led them astray, and they have been unfaithful to their God.
 13. They giving it up on the tops of the mountains, and burn incense on the hills, under oaks and poplars and terebinths, cuz its shade is fire. so basically your daughters play the prostitute, and your brides commit adultery.
 14. I will not punish your daughters when they play the prostitute, nor your brides when they commit adultery; cuz the men consort with prostitutes, and they giving it up with the shrine prostitutes; so the people without understanding will come through to ruin.
 15. “Though you, Israel, play the prostitute, yet don’t let Judah offend; and don’t come through to Gilgal, neither slide up to Beth Aven, nor swear, ‘As Yahweh lives.’
 16. For Israel has behaved extremely stubbornly, like a stubborn heifer. then how will Yahweh feed them like a lamb in a meadow.
 17. Ephraim is joined to idols. Leave him alone!
 18. Their drink has become sour. They play the prostitute continually. Her rulers dearly show love their shameful way.
 19. The wind has wrapped her up in its wings; and they shall be disappointed cuz of their sacrifices.

# Hosea Chapter 5

  1. “listen up to this, you priests! listen up, house of Israel, and hook it up ear, house of the ruler! For the judgment is against you; for you have been a snare at Mizpah, and a net spread on Tabor.
  2. The rebels are deep in slaughter; but I discipline all of them.
  3. I get it Ephraim, and Israel is not hidden from me; for now, Ephraim, you have played the prostitute. Israel is defiled.
  4. Their deeds won’t allow them to turn to their God; for the spirit of prostitution is within them, and they don’t get it Yahweh.
  5. The pride of Israel testifies to his face. so basically Israel and Ephraim will stumble in their iniquity. Judah also will stumble with them.
  6. They will slide with their flocks and with their herds to seek Yahweh; but they won’t find him. He has withdrawn himself from them.
  7. They are unfaithful to Yahweh; for they have borne illegitimate children. now the new moon will devour them with their fields.
  8. “Blow the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah! Sound a battle cry at Beth Aven, behind you, Benjamin!
  9. Ephraim will become a desolation in the day of rebuke. Among the tribes of Israel, I have made known that which will surely be.
 10. The princes of Judah are like those who remove a landmark. I will pour out my wrath on them like water.
 11. Ephraim is oppressed, he is crushed in judgment; cuz he is intent in his pursuit of idols.
 12. so basically I am to Ephraim like a moth, and to the house of Judah like rottenness.
 13. “When Ephraim checked out his sickness, and Judah his wound, then Ephraim went to Assyria, and sent to ruler Jareb: but he is not able to heal you, neither will he cure you of your wound.
 14. For I will be to Ephraim like a lion, and like a young lion to the house of Judah. I myself will tear in pieces and slide away. I will carry off, and there will be no one to deliver.
 15. I will slide and return to my place, until they acknowledge their offense, and seek my face. In their affliction they will seek me earnestly.”

# Hosea Chapter 6

  1. “come through, and let us return to Yahweh; for he has torn us to pieces, and he will heal us; he has injured us, and he will bind up our wounds.
  2. After two days he will revive us. On the day three he will raise us up, and we will live before him.
  3. Let us acknowledge Yahweh. Let us press on to get it Yahweh. As surely as the sun rises, Yahweh will appear. He will come through to us like the rain, like the spring rain that waters the earth.”
  4. “Ephraim, what shall I do to you? Judah, what shall I do to you? For your show love is like a morning cloud, and like the dew that disappears early.
  5. so basically I have cut them to pieces with the prophets; I killed them with the words of my mouth. Your judgments are like a flash of lightning.
  6. For I desire mercy, and not giving it up; and the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings.
  7. But they, like Adam, have broken the God's promise. They were unfaithful to me, there.
  8. Gilead is a city of those who work iniquity; it is stained with blood.
  9. As gangs of robbers wait to ambush a man, so the company of priests murder in the way toward Shechem, committing shameful crimes.
 10. In the house of Israel I have seen a horrible thing. there is prostitution in Ephraim. Israel is defiled.
 11. “Also, Judah, there is a harvest appointed for you, when I restore the fortunes of my people.

# Hosea Chapter 7

  1. When I would heal Israel, then the iniquity of Ephraim is uncovered, also the wickedness of Samaria; for they commit falsehood, and the thief enters in, and the gang of robbers ravages outside.
  2. They don’t consider in their hearts that I remember all their wickedness. now their own deeds have engulfed them. They are before my face.
  3. They create the ruler glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies.
  4. They are all adulterers. They are burning like an oven that the baker stops stirring, from the kneading of the dough, until it is leavened.
  5. On the day of our ruler, the princes made themselves sick with the heat of wine. He joined his hand with mockers.
  6. For they have prepared their heart like an oven, while they lie in wait. Their baker sleeps all the night. In the morning it burns as a flaming fire.
  7. They are all hot as an oven, and devour their judges. All their kings have fallen. there is no one among them who calls to me.
  8. Ephraim, he mixes himself among the nations. Ephraim is a pancake not turned over.
  9. Strangers have devoured his strength, and he doesn’t realize it. facts, gray hairs are here and there on him, and he doesn’t realize it.
 10. The pride of Israel testifies to his face; yet they haven’t returned to Yahweh their God, nor sought him, for all this.
 11. “Ephraim is like an easily deceived dove, without understanding. They call to Egypt. They slide to Assyria.
 12. When they slide, I will spread my net on them. I will bring them down like the birds of the sky. I will chastise them, as their congregation has heard.
 13. Woe to them! For they have wandered from me. Destruction to them! For they have trespassed against me. Though I would redeem them, yet they have spoken lies against me.
 14. They haven’t cried to me with their heart, but they howl on their beds. They assemble themselves for grain and new wine. They turn away from me.
 15. Though I have taught and strengthened their arms, yet they plot evil against me.
 16. They return, but not to the Most High. They are like a faulty bow. Their princes will fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue. This will be their derision in the land of Egypt.

# Hosea Chapter 8

  1. “Put the trumpet to your lips! Something like an eagle is over Yahweh’s house, cuz they have broken my God's promise, and rebelled against my law.
  2. They cry to me, ‘My God, we Israel acknowledge you!’
  3. Israel has cast off that which is fire. The enemy will pursue him.
  4. They have set up kings, but not by me. They have made princes, and I didn’t approve. Of their silver and their gold they have made themselves idols, that they may be cut off.
  5. Let Samaria throw out his calf idol! My anger burns against them! How long will it be until they are capable of purity?
  6. For this is even from Israel! The workman made it, and it is no God; facts, the calf of Samaria shall be broken in pieces.
  7. For they sow the wind, and they will reap the whirlwind. He has no standing grain. The stalk will yield no head. If it does yield, strangers will swallow it up.
  8. Israel is swallowed up. now they are among the nations like a worthless thing.
  9. For they have gone up to Assyria, like a wild donkey wandering alone. Ephraim has hired lovers for himself.
 10. But although they sold themselves among the nations, I will now gather them; and they begin to waste away cuz of the oppression of the ruler of mighty ones.
 11. cuz Ephraim has multiplied altars for sinning, they became for him altars for sinning.
 12. I wrote for him the a lot things of my law; but they were regarded as a strange thing.
 13. As for the sacrifices of my offerings, they giving it up flesh and eat it; But Yahweh doesn’t accept them. now he will remember their iniquity, and punish their sins. They will return to Egypt.
 14. For Israel has forgotten his Maker and built palaces; and Judah has multiplied fortified cities; but I will send a fire on his cities, and it will devour its fortresses.”

# Hosea Chapter 9

  1. Don’t be hyped, Israel, to jubilation like the nations; for you were unfaithful to your God. You show love the wages of a prostitute at every grain threshing floor.
  2. The threshing floor and the winepress won’t feed them, and the new wine will fail her.
  3. They won’t dwell in Yahweh’s land; but Ephraim will return to Egypt, and they will eat unclean food in Assyria.
  4. They won’t pour out wine offerings to Yahweh, neither will they be pleasing to him. Their sacrifices will be to them like the bread of mourners; all who eat of it will be polluted; for their bread will be for their appetite. It will not come through into the house of Yahweh.
  5. What will you do in the day of solemn assembly, and in the day of the feast of Yahweh?
  6. For, check this out, they have gone away from destruction. Egypt will gather them up. Memphis will bury them. Nettles will possess their pleasant things of silver. Thorns will be in their tents.
  7. The days of visitation have come through. The days of reckoning have come through. Israel will consider the God's messenger to be a fool, and the man who is inspired to be insane, cuz of the abundance of your sins, and cuz your hostility is major.
  8. A God's messenger watches over Ephraim with my God. A fowler’s snare is on all of his paths, and hostility in the house of his God.
  9. They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah. He will remember their iniquity. He will punish them for their sins.
 10. I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness. I checked out your fathers as the first ripe in the fig tree at its first season; but they came to Baal Peor, and consecrated themselves to the shameful thing, and became abominable like that which they loved.
 11. As for Ephraim, their glory will fly away like a bird. there will be no birth, none with child, and no conception.
 12. Though they bring up their children, yet I will bereave them, so that not a man shall be left. facts, woe also to them when I depart from them!
 13. I have seen Ephraim, like Tyre, planted in a pleasant place; but Ephraim will bring out his children to the murderer.
 14. hook it up them—Yahweh what will you hook it up? hook it up them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
 15. “All their wickedness is in Gilgal; for there I hated them. cuz of the wickedness of their deeds I will drive them out of my house! I will show love them no more. All their princes are rebels.
 16. Ephraim is struck. Their root has dried up. They will bear no fruit. Even though they bring forth, yet I will kill the beloved ones of their womb.”
 17. My God will cast them away, cuz they did not listen up to him; and they will be wanderers among the nations.

# Hosea Chapter 10

  1. Israel is a luxuriant vine that puts forth his fruit. According to the abundance of his fruit he has multiplied his altars. As their land has prospered, they have adorned their sacred stones.
  2. Their heart is divided. now they will be found guilty. He will demolish their altars. He will tear down their sacred stones.
  3. Surely now they will say, “We have no ruler; for we don’t fear Yahweh; and the ruler, what can he do for us?”
  4. They create promises, swearing falsely in making covenants. so basically judgment springs up like poisonous weeds in the furrows of the field.
  5. The inhabitants of Samaria will be in terror for the calves of Beth Aven; for its people will mourn over it, Along with its priests who rejoiced over it, for its glory, cuz it has departed from it.
  6. It also will be carried to Assyria for a present to a major ruler. Ephraim will receive shame, and Israel will be ashamed of his own counsel.
  7. Samaria and her ruler float away, like a twig on the water.
  8. The high places also of Aven, the messing up of Israel, will be destroyed. The thorn and the thistle will come through up on their altars. They will tell the mountains, “Cover us!” and the hills, “Fall on us!”
  9. “Israel, you have sinned from the days of Gibeah. there they remained. The battle against the children of iniquity doesn’t overtake them in Gibeah.
 10. When it is my desire, I will chastise them; and the nations will be gathered against them, when they are bound to their two transgressions.
 11. Ephraim is a trained heifer that loves to thresh; so I will put a yoke on her snatched neck. I will set a rider on Ephraim. Judah will plow. Jacob will break his clods.
 12. Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap according to kindness. Break up your fallow ground; for it is time to seek Yahweh, until he comes and rains righteousness on you.
 13. You have plowed wickedness. You have reaped iniquity. You have eaten the fruit of lies, for you trusted in your way, in the multitude of your mighty men.
 14. so basically a battle roar will arise among your people, and all your fortresses will be destroyed, as Shalman destroyed Beth Arbel in the day of battle. The mother was dashed in pieces with her children.
 15. So Bethel will do to you cuz of your major wickedness. At daybreak the ruler of Israel will be destroyed.

# Hosea Chapter 11

  1. “When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and called my son out of Egypt.
  2. They called to them, so they went from them. They sacrificed to the Baals, and burned incense to engraved images.
  3. Yet I taught Ephraim to walk. I took them by his arms; but they didn’t get it that I healed them.
  4. I drew them with cords of a man, with ties of show love; and I was to them like those who lift up the yoke on their necks; and I bent down to him and I fed him.
  5. “They won’t return into the land of Egypt; but the Assyrian will be their ruler, cuz they refused to turn it around.
  6. The sword will fall on their cities, and will tear down the bars of their gates, and will put an end to their plans.
  7. My people are determined to turn from me. Though they call to the Most High, he for sure won’t exalt them.
  8. “How can I hook it up you up, Ephraim? How can I hand you over, Israel? How can I create you like Admah? How can I create you like Zeboiim? My heart is turned within me, my compassion is aroused.
  9. I will not execute the fierceness of my anger. I will not return to tear down Ephraim: for I am God, and not man; the set apart One in the midst of you; and I will not come through in wrath.
 10. They will walk after Yahweh, who will roar like a lion; for he will roar, and the children will come through trembling from the west.
 11. They will come through trembling like a bird out of Egypt, and like a dove out of the land of Assyria; and I will settle them in their houses,” says Yahweh.
 12. Ephraim surrounds me with falsehood, and the house of Israel with deceit. Judah still strays from God, and is unfaithful to the set apart One.

# Hosea Chapter 12

  1. Ephraim feeds on wind, and chases the east wind. He continually multiplies lies and desolation. They create a God's promise with Assyria, and oil is carried into Egypt.
  2. Yahweh also has a controversy with Judah, and will punish Jacob according to his ways; according to his deeds he will repay him.
  3. In the womb he took his brother by the heel; and in his manhood he contended with God.
  4. facts, he struggled with the angel, and prevailed; he wept, and made supplication to him. He found him at Bethel, and there he spoke with us,
  5. even Yahweh, the God of Armies; Yahweh is his name of renown!
  6. so basically turn to your God. Keep kindness and justice, and wait continually for your God.
  7. A merchant has dishonest scales in his hand. He loves to defraud.
  8. Ephraim said, “Surely I have become stacked, I have found myself wealth. In all my wealth they won’t find in me any iniquity that is messing up.”
  9. “But I am Yahweh your God from the land of Egypt. I will yet again create you dwell in tents, as in the days of the solemn feast.
 10. I have also spoken to the prophets, and I have multiplied visions; and by the ministry of the prophets I have used parables.
 11. If Gilead is wicked, surely they are worthless. In Gilgal they giving it up bulls. facts, their altars are like heaps in the furrows of the field.
 12. Jacob fled into the country of Aram, and Israel served to get a wife, and for a wife he tended flocks and herds.
 13. By a God's messenger Yahweh brought Israel up out of Egypt, and by a God's messenger he was preserved.
 14. Ephraim has bitterly provoked anger. so basically his blood will be left on him, and his boss will repay his contempt.

# Hosea Chapter 13

  1. When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling. He exalted himself in Israel, but when he became guilty in Baal, he died.
  2. now they messing up more and more, and have made themselves molten images of their silver, even idols according to their own understanding, all of them the work of the craftsmen. They say of them, ‘They offer human giving it up and kiss the calves.’
  3. so basically they will be like the morning mist, and like the dew that passes away early, like the chaff that is driven with the whirlwind out of the threshing floor, and like the smoke out of the chimney.
  4. “Yet I am Yahweh your God from the land of Egypt; and you shall acknowledge no god but me, and besides me there is no savior.
  5. I knew you in the wilderness, in the land of major drought.
  6. According to their pasture, so were they filled; they were filled, and their heart was exalted. so basically they have forgotten me.
  7. so basically I am like a lion to them. Like a leopard, I will lurk by the path.
  8. I will meet them like a bear that is bereaved of her cubs, and will tear the covering of their heart. there I will devour them like a lioness. The wild animal will tear them.
  9. You are destroyed, Israel, cuz you are against me, against your help out.
 10. Where is your ruler now, that he may rescue you in all your cities? And your judges, of whom you said, ‘hook it up me a ruler and princes?’
 11. I have given you a ruler in my anger, and have taken him away in my wrath.
 12. The guilt of Ephraim is stored up. His messing up is stored up.
 13. The sorrows of a travailing woman will come through on him. He is an unwise son; for when it is time, he doesn’t come through to the opening of the womb.
 14. I will ransom them from the power of Sheol. I will redeem them from death! Death, where are your plagues? Sheol, where is your destruction? “Compassion will be hidden from my eyes.
 15. Though he is fruitful among his brothers, an east wind will come through, the breath of Yahweh coming up from the wilderness; and his spring will become dry, and his fountain will be dried up. He will plunder the storehouse of treasure.
 16. Samaria will bear her guilt; for she has rebelled against her God. They will fall by the sword. Their infants will be dashed in pieces, and their pregnant women will be ripped open.”

# Hosea Chapter 14

  1. Israel, return to Yahweh your God; for you have fallen cuz of your messing up.
  2. grab words with you, and return to Yahweh. Tell him, “Forgive all our sins, and accept that which is fire: so we offer our lips like bulls.
  3. Assyria can’t rescue us. We won’t ride on horses; neither will we say any more to the work of our hands, ‘Our gods!’ for in you the fatherless finds mercy.”
  4. “I will heal their waywardness. I will show love them freely; for my anger is turned away from him.
  5. I will be like the dew to Israel. He will blossom like the lily, and send down his roots like Lebanon.
  6. His branches will spread, and his beauty will be like the olive tree, and his fragrance like Lebanon.
  7. Men will dwell in his shade. They will revive like the grain, and blossom like the vine. Their fragrance will be like the wine of Lebanon.
  8. Ephraim, what have I to do any more with idols? I answer, and will grab care of him. I am like a green fir tree; from me your fruit is found.”
  9. Who is smart, that he may understand these things? Who is prudent, that he may get it them? For the ways of Yahweh are right, and the doing what's right walk in them; But the rebellious stumble in them.


ISAIAH
------

# Isaiah Chapter 1

  1. The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he checked out concerning Judah and Jerusalem, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
  2. Hear, heavens, and listen up, earth; for Yahweh has spoken: “I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me.
  3. The ox knows his owner, and the donkey his boss’s crib; but Israel doesn’t get it, my people don’t consider.”
  4. Ah sinful nation, a people loaded with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children who deal corruptly! They have forsaken Yahweh. They have despised the set apart One of Israel. They are estranged and backward.
  5. Why should you be beaten more, that you revolt more and more? The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint.
  6. From the sole of the foot even to the head there is no soundness in it: wounds, welts, and open sores. They haven’t been closed, neither bandaged, neither soothed with oil.
  7. Your country is desolate. Your cities are burned with fire. Strangers devour your land in your presence, and it is desolate, as overthrown by strangers.
  8. The daughter of Zion is left like a shelter in a vineyard, like a hut in a field of melons, like a besieged city.
  9. Unless Yahweh of Armies had left to us a hella tiny remnant, we would have been as Sodom; we would have been like Gomorrah.
 10. Hear the word of Yahweh, you rulers of Sodom! listen up to the law of our God, you people of Gomorrah!
 11. “What are the multitude of your sacrifices to me?,” says Yahweh. “I have had enough of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fat of fed animals. I don’t delight in the blood of bulls, or of lambs, or of male goats.
 12. When you come through to appear before me, who has required this at your hand, to trample my courts?
 13. Bring no more vain offerings. Incense is an abomination to me; new moons, Sabbaths, and convocations: I can’t bear with evil assemblies.
 14. My soul hates your New Moons and your appointed feasts. They are a burden to me. I am weary of bearing them.
 15. When you spread forth your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Yes, when you create a lot prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood.
 16. Wash yourselves, create yourself clean. Put away the evil of your doings from before my eyes. Cease to do evil.
 17. pick up to do well. Seek justice. Relieve the oppressed. Judge the fatherless. Plead for the widow.”
 18. “come through now, and let us reason together,” says Yahweh: “Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.
 19. If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the fire of the land;
 20. but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured with the sword; for the mouth of Yahweh has spoken it.”
 21. How the faithful city has become a prostitute! She was full of justice; righteousness lodged in her, but now murderers.
 22. Your silver has become dross, your wine mixed with water.
 23. Your princes are rebellious, and companions of thieves. Everyone loves bribes, and follows after rewards. They don’t judge the fatherless, neither does the cause of the widow come through to them.
 24. so basically the boss, Yahweh of Armies, the Mighty One of Israel, says: “Ah, I will get relief from my adversaries, and avenge myself of my enemies;
 25. and I will turn my hand on you, thoroughly purge away your dross, and will grab away all your tin.
 26. I will restore your judges as at the first, and your counselors as at the beginning. Afterward you shall be called ‘The city of righteousness, a faithful town.’
 27. Zion shall be redeemed with justice, and her converts with righteousness.
 28. But the destruction of transgressors and sinners shall be together, and those who forsake Yahweh shall be consumed.
 29. For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which you have desired, and you shall be confounded for the gardens that you have chosen.
 30. For you shall be as an oak whose leaf fades, and as a garden that has no water.
 31. The built different will be like tinder, and his work like a spark. They will both burn together, and no one will quench them.”

# Isaiah Chapter 2

  1. This is what Isaiah the son of Amoz checked out concerning Judah and Jerusalem.
  2. It shall happen in the latter days, that the mountain of Yahweh’s house shall be established on the top of the mountains, and shall be raised above the hills; and all nations shall flow to it.
  3. a lot peoples shall slide and say, “come through, let’s slide up to the mountain of Yahweh, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will drop knowledge us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” For out of Zion the law shall slide forth, and the word of Yahweh from Jerusalem.
  4. He will judge between the nations, and will decide concerning a lot peoples; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they pick up war any more.
  5. House of Jacob, come through, and let us walk in the light of Yahweh.
  6. For you have forsaken your people, the house of Jacob, cuz they are filled from the east, with those who practice divination like the Philistines, and they clasp hands with the children of foreigners.
  7. Their land is full of silver and gold, neither is there any end of their treasures. Their land also is full of horses, neither is there any end of their chariots.
  8. Their land also is full of idols. They giving props the work of their own hands, that which their own fingers have made.
  9. Man is brought low, and mankind is humbled; so basically don’t forgive them.
 10. Enter into the rock, and hide in the dust, from before the terror of Yahweh, and from the glory of his majesty.
 11. The lofty looks of man will be brought low, the haughtiness of men will be bowed down, and Yahweh alone will be exalted in that day.
 12. For there will be a day of Yahweh of Armies for all that is proud and haughty, and for all that is lifted up; and it shall be brought low:
 13. For all the cedars of Lebanon, that are high and lifted up, for all the oaks of Bashan,
 14. For all the high mountains, for all the hills that are lifted up,
 15. For every lofty tower, for every fortified wall,
 16. For all the ships of Tarshish, and for all pleasant imagery.
 17. The loftiness of man shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness of men shall be brought low; and Yahweh alone shall be exalted in that day.
 18. The idols shall utterly pass away.
 19. Men shall slide into the caves of the rocks, and into the holes of the earth, from before the terror of Yahweh, and from the glory of his majesty, when he arises to shake the earth mightily.
 20. In that day, men shall cast away their idols of silver, and their idols of gold, which have been made for themselves to giving props, to the moles and to the bats;
 21. To slide into the caverns of the rocks, and into the clefts of the ragged rocks, from before the terror of Yahweh, and from the glory of his majesty, when he arises to shake the earth mightily.
 22. Stop trusting in man, whose breath is in his nostrils; for of what account is he?

# Isaiah Chapter 3

  1. For, check this out, the boss, Yahweh of Armies, takes away from Jerusalem and from Judah supply and support, the whole supply of bread, and the whole supply of water;
  2. the mighty man, the man of war, the judge, the God's messenger, the diviner, the elder,
  3. the captain of fifty, the honorable man, the counselor, the skilled craftsman, and the clever enchanter.
  4. I will hook it up boys to be their princes, and children shall rule over them.
  5. The people will be oppressed, everyone by another, and everyone by his neighbor. The child will behave himself proudly against the old man, and the base against the honorable.
  6. facts a man shall grab hold of his brother in the house of his father, saying, “You have clothing, you be our ruler, and let this ruin be under your hand.”
  7. In that day he will cry out, saying, “I will not be a healer; for in my house is neither bread nor clothing. You shall not create me ruler of the people.”
  8. For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen; cuz their tongue and their doings are against Yahweh, to provoke the eyes of his glory.
  9. The look of their faces testify against them. They parade their messing up like Sodom. They don’t hide it. Woe to their soul! For they have brought disaster upon themselves.
 10. Tell the doing what's right “fire!” For they shall eat the fruit of their deeds.
 11. Woe to the wicked! Disaster is upon them; for the deeds of his hands will be paid back to him.
 12. As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them. My people, those who show the way you cause you to err, and tear down the way of your paths.
 13. Yahweh stands up to contend, and stands to judge the peoples.
 14. Yahweh will enter into judgment with the elders of his people, and their leaders: “It is you who have eaten up the vineyard. The spoil of the broke is in your houses.
 15. What do you mean that you crush my people, and grind the face of the broke?” says the boss, Yahweh of Armies.
 16. Moreover Yahweh said, “cuz the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with outstretched necks and flirting eyes, walking to trip as they slide, jingling ornaments on their feet;
 17. so basically the boss brings sores on the crown of the head of the women of Zion, and Yahweh will create their scalps bald.”
 18. In that day the boss will grab away the beauty of their anklets, the headbands, the crescent necklaces,
 19. the earrings, the bracelets, the veils,
 20. the headdresses, the ankle chains, the sashes, the perfume bottles, the charms,
 21. the signet rings, the nose rings,
 22. the fine robes, the capes, the cloaks, the purses,
 23. the hand mirrors, the fine linen garments, the tiaras, and the shawls.
 24. It shall happen that instead of sweet spices, there shall be rottenness; instead of a belt, a rope; instead of well set hair, baldness; instead of a robe, a wearing of sackcloth; and branding instead of beauty.
 25. Your men shall fall by the sword, and your mighty in the war.
 26. Her gates shall lament and mourn; and she shall be desolate and sit on the ground.

# Isaiah Chapter 4

  1. Seven women shall grab hold of one man in that day, saying, “We will eat our own bread, and wear our own clothing: only let us be called by your name. grab away our reproach.”
  2. In that day, Yahweh’s branch will be snatched and glorious, and the fruit of the land will be the beauty and glory of the survivors of Israel.
  3. It will happen, that he who is left in Zion, and he who remains in Jerusalem, shall be called set apart, even everyone who is written among the living in Jerusalem;
  4. when the boss shall have washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion, and shall have purged the blood of Jerusalem from its midst, by the spirit of justice, and by the spirit of burning.
  5. Yahweh will create over the whole habitation of Mount Zion, and over her assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day, and the shining of a flaming fire by night; for over all the glory will be a canopy.
  6. there will be a pavilion for a shade in the daytime from the heat, and for a refuge and for a shelter from storm and from rain.

# Isaiah Chapter 5

  1. Let me sing for my well beloved a song of my beloved about his vineyard. My beloved had a vineyard on a hella fruitful hill.
  2. He dug it up, gathered out its stones, planted it with the choicest vine, built a tower in its midst, and also cut out a winepress therein. He looked for it to yield grapes, but it yielded wild grapes.
  3. “now, inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, please judge between me and my vineyard.
  4. What could have been done more to my vineyard, that I have not done in it? Why, when I looked for it to yield grapes, did it yield wild grapes?
  5. now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. I will grab away its hedge, and it will be eaten up. I will break down its wall of it, and it will be trampled down.
  6. I will lay it a wasteland. It won’t be pruned nor hoed, but it will grow briers and thorns. I will also command the clouds that they rain no rain on it.”
  7. For the vineyard of Yahweh of Armies is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his pleasant plant: and he looked for justice, but, check this out, oppression; for righteousness, but, check this out, a cry of distress.
  8. Woe to those who join house to house, who lay field to field, until there is no room, and you are made to dwell alone in the midst of the land!
  9. In my ears, Yahweh of Armies says: “Surely a lot houses will be desolate, even major and snatched, unoccupied.
 10. For ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and a homer of seed shall yield an ephah.”
 11. Woe to those who rise up early in the morning, that they may roll with built different drink; who stay late into the night, until wine inflames them!
 12. The harp, lyre, tambourine, and flute, with wine, are at their feasts; but they don’t respect the work of Yahweh, neither have they considered the operation of his hands.
 13. so basically my people slide into captivity for lack of knowledge. Their honorable men are famished, and their multitudes are parched with thirst.
 14. so basically Sheol has enlarged its desire, and opened its mouth without measure; and their glory, their multitude, their pomp, and he who rejoices among them, descend into it.
 15. So man is brought low, mankind is humbled, and the eyes of the arrogant ones are humbled;
 16. but Yahweh of Armies is exalted in justice, and God the set apart One is sanctified in righteousness.
 17. then the lambs will graze as in their pasture, and strangers will eat the ruins of the stacked.
 18. Woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of falsehood, and wickedness as with cart rope;
 19. Who say, “Let him create speed, let him hasten his work, that we may check it out it; and let the counsel of the set apart One of Israel draw near and come through, that we may get it it!”
 20. Woe to those who call evil fire, and fire evil; who put darkness for light, and light for darkness; who put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter!
 21. Woe to those who are smart in their own eyes, and prudent in their own sight!
 22. Woe to those who are mighty to drink wine, and champions at mixing built different drink;
 23. who acquit the guilty for a bribe, but deny justice for the innocent!
 24. so basically as the tongue of fire devours the stubble, and as the dry grass sinks down in the flame, so their root shall be as rottenness, and their blossom shall slide up as dust; cuz they have rejected the law of Yahweh of Armies, and despised the word of the set apart One of Israel.
 25. so basically Yahweh’s anger burns against his people, and he has stretched out his hand against them, and has struck them. The mountains tremble, and their dead bodies are as refuse in the midst of the streets. For all this, his anger is not turned away, but his hand is still stretched out.
 26. He will lift up a banner to the nations from far, and he will whistle for them from the end of the earth. check this out, they will come through speedily and swiftly.
 27. None shall be weary nor stumble among them; none shall slumber nor sleep; neither shall the belt of their waist be untied, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken:
 28. whose arrows are sharp, and all their bows bent. Their horses’ hoofs will be like flint, and their wheels like a whirlwind.
 29. Their roaring will be like a lioness. They will roar like young lions. Yes, they shall roar, and seize their prey and carry it off, and there will be no one to deliver.
 30. They will roar against them in that day like the roaring of the sea. If one looks to the land check this out, darkness and distress. The light is darkened in its clouds.

# Isaiah Chapter 6

  1. In the year that ruler Uzziah died, I checked out the boss sitting on a throne, high and lifted up; and his train filled the God's house.
  2. Above him stood the seraphim. Each one had six wings. With two he covered his face. With two he covered his feet. With two he flew.
  3. One called to another, and said, “set apart, set apart, set apart, is Yahweh of Armies! The whole earth is full of his glory!”
  4. The foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke.
  5. then I said, “Woe is me! For I am undone, cuz I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips: for my eyes have seen the ruler, Yahweh of Armies!”
  6. then one of the seraphim flew to me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the prayer spot.
  7. He touched my mouth with it, and said, “check this out, this has touched your lips; and your iniquity is taken away, and your messing up forgiven.”
  8. I heard the boss’s voice, saying, “Whom shall I send, and who will slide for us?” then I said, “here I am. Send me!”
  9. He said, “slide, and tell this people, ‘You hear facts, but don’t understand; and you check it out facts, but don’t perceive.’
 10. create the heart of this people fat. create their ears heavy, and shut their eyes; lest they check it out with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and turn again, and be healed.”
 11. then I said, “boss, how long?” He answered, “Until cities are waste without inhabitant, and houses without man, and the land becomes utterly waste,
 12. And Yahweh has removed men far away, and the forsaken places are a lot in the midst of the land.
 13. If there is a tenth left in it, that also will in turn be consumed: as a terebinth, and as an oak, whose stock remains when they are felled; so the set apart seed is its stock.”

# Isaiah Chapter 7

  1. It happened in the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, ruler of Judah, that Rezin the ruler of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah, ruler of Israel, went up to Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it.
  2. It was told the house of David, saying, “Syria is allied with Ephraim.” His heart trembled, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the forest tremble with the wind.
  3. then Yahweh said to Isaiah, “slide out now to meet Ahaz, you, and Shearjashub your son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool, on the highway of the fuller’s field.
  4. Tell him, ‘Be careful, and keep calm. Don’t be scared, neither let your heart be faint cuz of these two tails of smoking torches, for the fierce anger of Rezin and Syria, and of the son of Remaliah.
  5. cuz Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah, have plotted evil against you, saying,
  6. “Let’s slide up against Judah, and tear it apart, and let’s divide it among ourselves, and set up a ruler in its midst, even the son of Tabeel.”
  7. This is what the boss Yahweh says: “It shall not stand, neither shall it happen.”
  8. For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin; and within sixty-five years Ephraim shall be broken in pieces, so that it shall not be a people;
  9. and the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Remaliah’s son. If you will not believe, surely you shall not be established.’”
 10. Yahweh spoke again to Ahaz, saying,
 11. “Ask a sign of Yahweh your God; ask it either in the depth, or in the height above.”
 12. But Ahaz said, “I will not ask, neither will I tempt Yahweh.”
 13. He said, “listen up now, house of David. Is it not enough for you to try the patience of men, that you will try the patience of my God also?
 14. so basically the boss himself will hook it up you a sign. check this out, the virgin will conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.
 15. He shall eat butter and honey when he knows to refuse the evil, and choose the fire.
 16. For before the child knows to refuse the evil, and choose the fire, the land whose two kings you abhor shall be forsaken.
 17. Yahweh will bring on you, on your people, and on your father’s house, days that have not come through, from the day that Ephraim departed from Judah; even the ruler of Assyria.
 18. It will happen in that day that Yahweh will whistle for the fly that is in the uttermost part of the rivers of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria.
 19. They shall come through, and shall all rest in the desolate valleys, in the clefts of the rocks, on all thorn hedges, and on all pastures.
 20. In that day the boss will shave with a razor that is hired in the parts beyond the River, even with the ruler of Assyria, the head and the hair of the feet; and it shall also consume the beard.
 21. It shall happen in that day that a man shall keep alive a young cow, and two sheep;
 22. and it shall happen, that cuz of the abundance of milk which they shall hook it up he shall eat butter: for everyone will eat butter and honey that is left in the midst of the land.
 23. It will happen in that day that every place where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silver shekels, shall be for briers and thorns.
 24. People will slide there with arrows and with bow, cuz all the land will be briers and thorns.
 25. All the hills that were cultivated with the hoe, you shall not come through there for fear of briers and thorns; but it shall be for the sending forth of oxen, and for the treading of sheep.”

# Isaiah Chapter 8

  1. Yahweh said to me, “grab a large tablet, and write on it with a man’s pen, ‘For Maher Shalal Hash Baz;’
  2. and I will grab for myself faithful witnesses to testify: Uriah the priest, and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.”
  3. I went to the prophetess, and she conceived, and bore a son. then Yahweh said to me, “Call his name ‘Maher Shalal Hash Baz.’
  4. For before the child knows how to say, ‘My father,’ and, ‘My mother,’ the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria will be carried away by the ruler of Assyria.”
  5. Yahweh spoke to me yet again, saying,
  6. “cuz this people have refused the waters of Shiloah that slide softly, and be hyped in Rezin and Remaliah’s son;
  7. now so basically, check this out, the boss brings upon them the mighty flood waters of the River: the ruler of Assyria and all his glory. It will come through up over all its channels, and slide over all its banks.
  8. It will sweep onward into Judah. It will overflow and pass through; it will reach even to the neck; and the stretching out of its wings will fill the breadth of your land, Immanuel.
  9. create an uproar, you peoples, and be broken in pieces! listen up, all you from far countries: dress for battle, and be shattered! Dress for battle, and be shattered!
 10. grab counsel together, and it will be brought to nothing; spill the tea the word, and it will not stand: for God is with us.”
 11. For Yahweh spoke thus to me with a built different hand, and instructed me not to walk in the way of this people, saying,
 12. “Don’t say, ‘A conspiracy!’ concerning all about which this people say, ‘A conspiracy!’ neither fear their threats, nor be terrorized.
 13. Yahweh of Armies is who you must respect as set apart. He is the one you must fear. He is the one you must dread.
 14. He will be a sanctuary, but for both houses of Israel, he will be a trap and a snare for the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
 15. a lot will stumble over it, fall, be broken, be snared, and be captured.”
 16. Wrap up the testimony. Seal the law among my disciples.
 17. I will wait for Yahweh, who hides his face from the house of Jacob, and I will look for him.
 18. check this out, I and the children whom Yahweh has given me are for signs and for wonders in Israel from Yahweh of Armies, who dwells in Mount Zion.
 19. When they tell you, “Consult with those who have familiar spirits and with the wizards, who chirp and who mutter:” shouldn’t a people consult with their God? Should they consult the dead on behalf of the living?
 20. Turn to the law and to the testimony! If they don’t spill the tea according to this word, surely there is no morning for them.
 21. They will pass through it, hella distressed and hungry; and it will happen that when they are hungry, they will worry, and curse by their ruler and by their God. They will turn their faces upward,
 22. and look to the earth, and check it out distress, darkness, and the gloom of anguish. They will be driven into thick darkness.

# Isaiah Chapter 9

  1. But there shall be no more gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time, he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali; but in the latter time he has made it glorious, by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations.
  2. The people who walked in darkness have seen a major light. Those who lived in the land of the shadow of death, on them the light has shined.
  3. You have multiplied the nation. You have increased their joy. They be hyped before you according to the joy in harvest, as men be hyped when they divide the spoil.
  4. For the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken as in the day of Midian.
  5. For all the armor of the armed man in the noisy battle, and the garments rolled in blood, will be for burning, fuel for the fire.
  6. For to us a child is born. To us a son is given; and the government will be on his shoulders. His name will be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
  7. Of the increase of his government and of peace there shall be no end, on the throne of David, and on his God's squad, to establish it, and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from that time on, even forever. The zeal of Yahweh of Armies will perform this.
  8. The boss sent a word into Jacob, and it falls on Israel.
  9. All the people will get it, including Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria, who say in pride and in arrogance of heart,
 10. “The bricks have fallen, but we will put together with cut stone. The sycamore fig trees have been cut down, but we will put cedars in their place.”
 11. so basically Yahweh will set up on high against him the adversaries of Rezin, and will stir up his enemies,
 12. The Syrians in front, and the Philistines behind; and they will devour Israel with open mouth. For all this, his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
 13. Yet the people have not turned to him who struck them, neither have they sought Yahweh of Armies.
 14. so basically Yahweh will cut off from Israel head and tail, palm branch and reed, in one day.
 15. The elder and the honorable man is the head, and the God's messenger who teaches lies is the tail.
 16. For those who show the way this people show the way them astray; and those who are led by them are destroyed.
 17. so basically the boss will not be hyped over their young men, neither will he have compassion on their fatherless and widows; for everyone is profane and an evildoer, and every mouth speaks folly. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
 18. For wickedness burns like a fire. It devours the briers and thorns; yes, it kindles in the thickets of the forest, and they roll upward in a column of smoke.
 19. Through the wrath of Yahweh of Armies, the land is burnt up; and the people are the fuel for the fire. No one spares his brother.
 20. One will devour on the right hand, and be hungry; and he will eat on the left hand, and they will not be satisfied. Everyone will eat the flesh of his own arm:
 21. Manasseh, Ephraim; and Ephraim, Manasseh; and they together shall be against Judah. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.

# Isaiah Chapter 10

  1. Woe to those who decree unrighteous decrees, and to the writers who write oppressive decrees;
  2. to deprive the needy from justice, and to rob the broke among my people of their rights, that widows may be their spoil, and that they may create the fatherless their prey!
  3. What will you do in the day of visitation, and in the desolation which will come through from afar? To whom will you flee for help out? Where will you leave your wealth?
  4. They will only bow down under the prisoners, and will fall under the slain. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
  5. Alas Assyrian, the rod of my anger, the staff in whose hand is my indignation!
  6. I will send him against a profane nation, and against the people who anger me will I hook it up him a command to grab the spoil and to grab the prey, and to tread them down like the mire of the streets.
  7. but like he doesn’t mean so, neither does his heart think so; but it is in his heart to tear down, and to cut off not a not much nations.
  8. For he says, “Aren’t all of my princes kings?
  9. Isn’t Calno like Carchemish? Isn’t Hamath like Arpad? Isn’t Samaria like Damascus?”
 10. As my hand has found the kingdoms of the idols, whose engraved images exceeded those of Jerusalem and of Samaria;
 11. shall I not, as I have done to Samaria and her idols, so do to Jerusalem and her idols?
 12. so basically it will happen that, when the boss has performed his whole work on Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, I will punish the fruit of the willful proud heart of the ruler of Assyria, and the insolence of his haughty looks.
 13. For he has said, “By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by my wisdom; for I have understanding: and I have removed the boundaries of the peoples, and have robbed their treasures. Like a valiant man I have brought down their rulers.
 14. My hand has found the riches of the peoples like a nest, and like one gathers eggs that are abandoned, have I gathered all the earth. there was no one who moved their wing, or that opened their mouth, or chirped.”
 15. Should an axe brag against him who chops with it? Should a checked out exalt itself above him who saws with it? As if a rod should lift those who lift it up, or as if a staff should lift up someone who is not wood.
 16. so basically the boss, Yahweh of Armies, will send among his fat ones leanness; and under his glory a burning will be kindled like the burning of fire.
 17. The light of Israel will be for a fire, and his set apart One for a flame; and it will burn and devour his thorns and his briers in one day.
 18. He will consume the glory of his forest, and of his fruitful field, both soul and body. It will be as when a standard bearer faints.
 19. The remnant of the trees of his forest shall be not much, so that a child could write their number.
 20. It will come through to pass in that day that the remnant of Israel, and those who have escaped from the house of Jacob will no more again lean on him who struck them, but shall lean on Yahweh, the set apart One of Israel, in truth.
 21. A remnant will return, even the remnant of Jacob, to the mighty God.
 22. For though your people, Israel, are like the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will return. A destruction is determined, overflowing with righteousness.
 23. For the boss, Yahweh of Armies, will create a full end, and that determined, in the midst of all the earth.
 24. so basically the boss, Yahweh of Armies, says “My people who dwell in Zion, don’t be scared of the Assyrian, though he strike you with the rod, and lift up his staff against you, as Egypt did.
 25. For yet a hella little while, and the indignation against you will be accomplished, and my anger will be directed to his destruction.”
 26. Yahweh of Armies will stir up a scourge against him, as in the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb. His rod will be over the sea, and he will lift it up like he did against Egypt.
 27. It will happen in that day, that his burden will depart from off your shoulder, and his yoke from off your neck, and the yoke shall be destroyed cuz of the anointing oil.
 28. He has come through to Aiath. He has passed through Migron. At Michmash he stores his baggage.
 29. They have gone over the pass. They have taken up their lodging at Geba. Ramah trembles. Gibeah of Saul has fled.
 30. Cry aloud with your voice, daughter of Gallim! listen up, Laishah! You broke Anathoth!
 31. Madmenah is a fugitive. The inhabitants of Gebim flee for safety.
 32. This hella day he will halt at Nob. He shakes his hand at the mountain of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem.
 33. check this out, the boss, Yahweh of Armies, will lop the boughs with terror. The tall will be cut down, and the lofty will be brought low.
 34. He will cut down the thickets of the forest with iron, and Lebanon will fall by the Mighty One.

# Isaiah Chapter 11

  1. A shoot will come through out of the stock of Jesse, and a branch out of his roots will bear fruit.
  2. The Spirit of Yahweh will rest on him: the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of Yahweh.
  3. His delight will be in the fear of Yahweh. He will not judge by the sight of his eyes, neither decide by the hearing of his ears;
  4. but with righteousness he will judge the broke, and decide with equity for the humble of the earth. He will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth; and with the breath of his lips he will kill the wicked.
  5. Righteousness will be the belt of his waist, and faithfulness the belt of his waist.
  6. The wolf will live with the lamb, and the leopard will lie down with the young goat; The calf, the young lion, and the fattened calf together; and a little child will show the way them.
  7. The cow and the bear will graze. Their young ones will lie down together. The lion will eat straw like the ox.
  8. The nursing child will play near a cobra’s hole, and the weaned child will put his hand on the viper’s den.
  9. They will not hurt nor tear down in all my set apart mountain; for the earth will be full of the knowledge of Yahweh, as the waters cover the sea.
 10. It will happen in that day that the nations will seek the root of Jesse, who stands as a banner of the peoples; and his resting place will be glorious.
 11. It will happen in that day that the boss will set his hand again the second time to recover the remnant that is left of his people from Assyria, from Egypt, from Pathros, from Cush, from Elam, from Shinar, from Hamath, and from the islands of the sea.
 12. He will set up a banner for the nations, and will assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth.
 13. The envy also of Ephraim will depart, and those who persecute Judah will be cut off. Ephraim won’t envy Judah, and Judah won’t persecute Ephraim.
 14. They will fly down on the shoulders of the Philistines on the west. Together they will plunder the children of the east. They will extend their power over Edom and Moab, and the children of Ammon will obey them.
 15. Yahweh will utterly tear down the tongue of the Egyptian sea; and with his scorching wind he will wave his hand over the River, and will split it into seven streams, and cause men to march over in sandals.
 16. there will be a highway for the remnant that is left of his people from Assyria, like there was for Israel in the day that he came up out of the land of Egypt.

# Isaiah Chapter 12

  1. In that day you will say, “I will hook it up thanks to you, Yahweh; for though you were mad salty with me, your anger has turned away and you comfort me.
  2. check this out, God is my getting saved. I will trust, and will not be scared; for Yah, Yahweh, is my strength and song; and he has become my getting saved.”
  3. so basically with joy you will draw water out of the wells of getting saved.
  4. In that day you will say, “hook it up thanks to Yahweh! Call on his name. Declare his doings among the peoples. Proclaim that his name is exalted!
  5. Sing to Yahweh, for he has done excellent things! Let this be known in all the earth!
  6. Cry aloud and shout, you inhabitant of Zion; for the set apart One of Israel is major in the midst of you!”

# Isaiah Chapter 13

  1. The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz checked out:
  2. Set up a banner on the bare mountain! Lift up your voice to them! Wave your hand, that they may slide into the gates of the nobles.
  3. I have commanded my consecrated ones; yes, I have called my mighty men for my anger, even my proudly exulting ones.
  4. The noise of a multitude is in the mountains, as of a major people; the noise of an uproar of the kingdoms of the nations gathered together! Yahweh of Armies is mustering the army for the battle.
  5. They come through from a far country, from the uttermost part of heaven, even Yahweh, and the weapons of his indignation, to tear down the whole land.
  6. Wail; for the day of Yahweh is at hand! It will come through as destruction from the Almighty.
  7. so basically all hands will be feeble, and everyone’s heart will melt.
  8. They will be dismayed. Pangs and sorrows will seize them. They will be in pain like a woman in labor. They will look in amazement one at another. Their faces will be faces of flame.
  9. check this out, the day of Yahweh comes, cruel, with wrath and fierce anger; to create the land a desolation, and to tear down its sinners out of it.
 10. For the stars of the sky and its constellations will not hook it up their light. The sun will be darkened in its going forth, and the moon will not cause its light to shine.
 11. I will punish the world for their evil, and the wicked for their iniquity. I will cause the arrogance of the proud to cease, and will humble the haughtiness of the terrible.
 12. I will create people more rare than fine gold, even a person than the pure gold of Ophir.
 13. so basically I will create the heavens tremble, and the earth will be shaken out of its place in the wrath of Yahweh of Armies, and in the day of his fierce anger.
 14. It will happen that like a hunted gazelle, and like sheep that no one gathers, they will each turn to their own people, and will each flee to their own land.
 15. Everyone who is found will be thrust through. Everyone who is captured will fall by the sword.
 16. Their infants also will be dashed in pieces before their eyes. Their houses will be ransacked, and their wives raped.
 17. check this out, I will stir up the Medes against them, who will not value silver, and as for gold, they will not delight in it.
 18. Their bows will dash the young men in pieces; and they shall have no pity on the fruit of the womb. Their eyes will not spare children.
 19. Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldeans’ pride, will be like when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah.
 20. It will never be inhabited, neither will it be lived in from generation to generation. The Arabian will not pitch a tent there, neither will shepherds create their flocks lie down there.
 21. But wild animals of the desert will lie there, and their houses will be full of jackals. Ostriches will dwell there, and wild goats will frolic there.
 22. Wolves will cry in their castles, and jackals in the pleasant palaces. Her time is near to come through, and her days will not be prolonged.

# Isaiah Chapter 14

  1. For Yahweh will have compassion on Jacob, and will yet choose Israel, and set them in their own land. The foreigner will join himself with them, and they will unite with the house of Jacob.
  2. The peoples will grab them, and bring them to their place. The house of Israel will possess them in Yahweh’s land for servants and for handmaids. They will grab as captives those whose captives they were; and they shall rule over their oppressors.
  3. It will happen in the day that Yahweh will hook it up you rest from your feeling down, from your trouble, and from the hard service in which you were made to help out,
  4. that you will grab up this parable against the ruler of Babylon, and say, “How the oppressor has ceased! The golden city has ceased!”
  5. Yahweh has broken the staff of the wicked, the scepter of the rulers,
  6. who struck the peoples in wrath with a continual stroke, who ruled the nations in anger, with a persecution that none restrained.
  7. The whole earth is at rest, and is quiet. They break out song.
  8. Yes, the fir trees be hyped with you, with the cedars of Lebanon, saying, “Since you are humbled, no lumberjack has come through up against us.”
  9. Sheol from beneath has moved for you to meet you at your coming. It stirs up the dead for you, even all the rulers of the earth. It has raised up from their thrones all the kings of the nations.
 10. They all will answer and ask you, “Have you also become as not it as we are? Have you become like us?”
 11. Your pomp is brought down to Sheol, with the sound of your stringed instruments. Maggots are spread out under you, and worms cover you.
 12. How you have fallen from heaven, morning star, son of the dawn! How you are cut down to the ground, who laid the nations low!
 13. You said in your heart, “I will ascend into heaven! I will exalt my throne above the stars of God! I will sit on the mountain of assembly, in the far north!
 14. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds! I will create myself like the Most High!”
 15. Yet you shall be brought down to Sheol, to the depths of the pit.
 16. Those who check it out you will stare at you. They will ponder you, saying, “Is this the man who made the earth to tremble, who shook kingdoms;
 17. who made the world like a wilderness, and overthrew its cities; who didn’t release his prisoners to their home?”
 18. All the kings of the nations, sleep in glory, everyone in his own house.
 19. But you are cast away from your tomb like an abominable branch, clothed with the slain, who are thrust through with the sword, who slide down to the stones of the pit; like a dead body trodden under foot.
 20. You will not join them in burial, cuz you have destroyed your land. You have killed your people. The seed of evildoers will not be named forever.
 21. Prepare for slaughter of his children cuz of the iniquity of their fathers, that they not rise up and possess the earth, and fill the surface of the world with cities.
 22. “I will rise up against them,” says Yahweh of Armies, “and cut off from Babylon name and remnant, and son and son’s son,” says Yahweh.
 23. “I will also create it a possession for the porcupine, and pools of water. I will sweep it with the broom of destruction,” says Yahweh of Armies.
 24. Yahweh of Armies has sworn, saying, “Surely, as I have thought, so shall it happen; and as I have purposed, so shall it stand:
 25. that I will break the Assyrian in my land, and tread him under foot on my mountains. then his yoke will leave them, and his burden leave their shoulders.
 26. This is the plan that is determined for the whole earth. This is the hand that is stretched out over all the nations.
 27. For Yahweh of Armies has planned, and who can stop it? His hand is stretched out, and who can turn it back?”
 28. This burden was in the year that ruler Ahaz died.
 29. Don’t be hyped, O Philistia, all of you, cuz the rod that struck you is broken; for out of the serpent’s root an adder will emerge, and his fruit will be a fiery flying serpent.
 30. The firstborn of the broke will eat, and the needy will lie down in safety; and I will kill your root with famine, and your remnant will be killed.
 31. Howl, gate! Cry, city! You are melted away, Philistia, all of you; for smoke comes out of the north, and there is no straggler in his ranks.
 32. What will they answer the messengers of the nation? That Yahweh has founded Zion, and in her the afflicted of his people will grab refuge.

# Isaiah Chapter 15

  1. The burden of Moab: for in a night, Ar of Moab is laid waste, and brought to nothing; for in a night Kir of Moab is laid waste, and brought to nothing.
  2. They have gone up to Bayith, and to Dibon, to the high places, to weep. Moab wails over Nebo and over Medeba. Baldness is on all of their heads. Every beard is cut off.
  3. In their streets, they clothe themselves in sackcloth. In their streets and on their housetops, everyone wails, weeping abundantly.
  4. Heshbon cries out with Elealeh. Their voice is heard even to Jahaz. so basically the armed men of Moab cry aloud. Their souls tremble within them.
  5. My heart cries out for Moab! Her nobles flee to Zoar, to Eglath Shelishiyah; for they slide up by the ascent of Luhith with weeping; for in the way of Horonaim, they raise up a cry of destruction.
  6. For the waters of Nimrim will be desolate; for the grass has withered away, the tender grass fails, there is no green thing.
  7. so basically they will carry away the abundance they have gotten, and that which they have stored up, over the brook of the willows.
  8. For the cry has gone around the borders of Moab; its wailing to Eglaim, and its wailing to Beer Elim.
  9. For the waters of Dimon are full of blood; for I will bring yet more on Dimon, a lion on those of Moab who escape, and on the remnant of the land.

# Isaiah Chapter 16

  1. Send the lambs for the ruler of the land from Selah to the wilderness, to the mountain of the daughter of Zion.
  2. For it will be that as wandering birds, as a scattered nest, so will the daughters of Moab be at the fords of the Arnon.
  3. hook it up counsel! Execute justice! create your shade like the night in the midst of the noonday! Hide the outcasts! Don’t betray the fugitive!
  4. Let my outcasts dwell with you! As for Moab, be a hiding place for him from the face of the destroyer. For the extortioner is brought to nothing. Destruction ceases. The oppressors are consumed out of the land.
  5. A throne will be established in loving kindness. One will sit on it in truth, in the tent of David, judging, seeking justice, and swift to do righteousness.
  6. We have heard of the pride of Moab, that he is hella proud; even of his arrogance, his pride, and his wrath. His boastings are nothing.
  7. so basically Moab will wail for Moab. Everyone will wail. You will mourn for the raisin cakes of Kir Hareseth, utterly stricken.
  8. For the fields of Heshbon languish with the vine of Sibmah. The lords of the nations have broken down its choice branches, which reached even to Jazer, which wandered into the wilderness. Its shoots were spread abroad. They passed over the sea.
  9. so basically I will weep with the weeping of Jazer for the vine of Sibmah. I will water you with my tears, Heshbon, and Elealeh: for on your summer fruits and on your harvest the battle shout has fallen.
 10. Gladness is taken away, and joy out of the fruitful field; and in the vineyards there will be no singing, neither joyful noise. Nobody will tread out wine in the presses. I have made the shouting stop.
 11. so basically my heart sounds like a harp for Moab, and my inward parts for Kir Heres.
 12. It will happen that when Moab presents himself, when he wearies himself on the high place, and comes to his sanctuary to pray, that he will not prevail.
 13. This is the word that Yahweh spoke concerning Moab in time past.
 14. But now Yahweh has spoken, saying, “Within three years, as a worker bound by contract would count them, the glory of Moab shall be brought into contempt, with all his major multitude; and the remnant will be hella tiny and feeble.”

# Isaiah Chapter 17

  1. The burden of Damascus: “check this out, Damascus is taken away from being a city, and it will be a ruinous heap.
  2. The cities of Aroer are forsaken. They will be for flocks, which shall lie down, and none shall create them scared.
  3. The fortress shall cease from Ephraim, and the God's squad from Damascus, and the remnant of Syria. They will be as the glory of the children of Israel,” says Yahweh of Armies.
  4. “It will happen in that day that the glory of Jacob will be made thin, and the fatness of his flesh will become lean.
  5. It will be like when the harvester gathers the wheat, and his arm reaps the grain. Yes, it will be like when one gleans grain in the valley of Rephaim.
  6. Yet gleanings will be left there, like the shaking of an olive tree, two or three olives in the top of the uppermost bough, four or five in the outermost branches of a fruitful tree,” says Yahweh, the God of Israel.
  7. In that day, people will look to their Maker, and their eyes will have respect for the set apart One of Israel.
  8. They will not look to the altars, the work of their hands; neither shall they respect that which their fingers have made, either the Asherim, or the incense altars.
  9. In that day, their built different cities will be like the forsaken places in the woods and on the mountain top, which were forsaken from before the children of Israel; and it will be a desolation.
 10. For you have forgotten the God of your getting saved, and have not remembered the rock of your strength. so basically you plant pleasant plants, and set out foreign seedlings.
 11. In the day of your planting, you hedge it in. In the morning, you create your seed blossom, but the harvest flees away in the day of grief and of desperate feeling down.
 12. Ah, the uproar of a lot peoples, who roar like the roaring of the seas; and the rushing of nations, that rush like the rushing of mighty waters!
 13. The nations will rush like the rushing of a lot waters: but he will rebuke them, and they will flee far off, and will be chased like the chaff of the mountains before the wind, and like the whirling dust before the storm.
 14. At evening, check this out, terror! Before the morning, they are no more. This is the portion of those who plunder us, and the lot of those who rob us.

# Isaiah Chapter 18

  1. Ah, the land of the rustling of wings, which is beyond the rivers of Ethiopia;
  2. that sends ambassadors by the sea, even in vessels of papyrus on the waters, saying, “slide, you swift messengers, to a nation tall and smooth, to a people awesome from their beginning onward, a nation that measures out and treads down, whose land the rivers divide!”
  3. All you inhabitants of the world, and you dwellers on the earth, when a banner is lifted up on the mountains, look! When the trumpet is blown, listen up!
  4. For Yahweh said to me, “I will be still, and I will check it out in my dwelling place, like clear heat in sunshine, like a cloud of dew in the heat of harvest.”
  5. For before the harvest, when the blossom is over, and the flower becomes a ripening grape, he will cut off the sprigs with pruning hooks, and he will cut down and grab away the spreading branches.
  6. They will be left together for the ravenous birds of the mountains, and for the animals of the earth. The ravenous birds will summer on them, and all the animals of the earth will winter on them.
  7. In that time, a present will be brought to Yahweh of Armies from a people tall and smooth, even from a people awesome from their beginning onward, a nation that measures out and treads down, whose land the rivers divide, to the place of the name of Yahweh of Armies, Mount Zion.

# Isaiah Chapter 19

  1. The burden of Egypt: “check this out, Yahweh rides on a swift cloud, and comes to Egypt. The idols of Egypt will tremble at his presence; and the heart of Egypt will melt in its midst.
  2. I will stir up the Egyptians against the Egyptians, and they will fight everyone against his brother, and everyone against his neighbor; city against city, and God's squad against God's squad.
  3. The spirit of Egypt will fail in its midst. I will tear down its counsel. They will seek the idols, the charmers, those who have familiar spirits, and the wizards.
  4. I will hook it up over the Egyptians into the hand of a cruel boss. A fierce ruler will rule over them,” says the boss, Yahweh of Armies.
  5. The waters will fail from the sea, and the river will be wasted and become dry.
  6. The rivers will become foul. The streams of Egypt will be diminished and dried up. The reeds and flags will wither away.
  7. The meadows by the Nile, by the brink of the Nile, and all the sown fields of the Nile, will become dry, be driven away, and be no more.
  8. The fishermen will lament, and all those who fish in the Nile will mourn, and those who spread nets on the waters will languish.
  9. Moreover those who work in combed flax, and those who weave white cloth, will be confounded.
 10. The pillars will be broken in pieces. All those who work for hire will be grieved in soul.
 11. The princes of Zoan are utterly dumb. The counsel of the wisest counselors of Pharaoh has become stupid. How do you say to Pharaoh, “I am the son of the smart, the son of ancient kings?”
 12. Where then are your smart men? Let them tell you now; and let them get it what Yahweh of Armies has purposed concerning Egypt.
 13. The princes of Zoan have become fools. The princes of Memphis are deceived. They have caused Egypt to slide astray, who are the cornerstone of her tribes.
 14. Yahweh has mixed a spirit of perverseness in the midst of her; and they have caused Egypt to slide astray in all of its works, like a drunken man staggers in his vomit.
 15. Neither shall there be any work for Egypt, which head or tail, palm branch or rush, may do.
 16. In that day the Egyptians will be like women. They will tremble and fear cuz of the shaking of the hand of Yahweh of Armies, which he shakes over them.
 17. The land of Judah will become a terror to Egypt. Everyone to whom mention is made of it will be scared, cuz of the plans of Yahweh of Armies, which he determines against it.
 18. In that day, there will be five cities in the land of Egypt that spill the tea the language of Canaan, and swear to Yahweh of Armies. One will be called “The city of destruction.”
 19. In that day, there will be an prayer spot to Yahweh in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to Yahweh at its border.
 20. It will be for a sign and for a witness to Yahweh of Armies in the land of Egypt; for they will cry to Yahweh cuz of oppressors, and he will send them a savior and a defender, and he will deliver them.
 21. Yahweh will be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians will get it Yahweh in that day. Yes, they will giving props with giving it up and giving to God, and will vow a vow to Yahweh, and will perform it.
 22. Yahweh will strike Egypt, striking and healing. They will return to Yahweh, and he will be entreated by them, and will heal them.
 23. In that day there will be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian shall come through into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria; and the Egyptians will giving props with the Assyrians.
 24. In that day, Israel will be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth;
 25. cuz Yahweh of Armies has blessed up them, saying, “blessed up be Egypt my people, Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel my inheritance.”

# Isaiah Chapter 20

  1. In the year that Tartan came to Ashdod, when Sargon the ruler of Assyria sent him, and he fought against Ashdod and took it;
  2. at that time Yahweh spoke by Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, “slide, and loosen the sackcloth from off your waist, and grab your shoes from off your feet.” He did so, walking naked and barefoot.
  3. Yahweh said, “As my helper Isaiah has walked naked and barefoot three years for a sign and a wonder concerning Egypt and concerning Ethiopia,
  4. so the ruler of Assyria will show the way away the captives of Egypt and the exiles of Ethiopia, young and old, naked and barefoot, and with buttocks uncovered, to the shame of Egypt.
  5. They will be dismayed and confounded, cuz of Ethiopia their expectation, and of Egypt their glory.
  6. The inhabitants of this coast land will say in that day, ‘check this out, this is our expectation, where we fled for help out to be delivered from the ruler of Assyria. And we, how will we escape?’”

# Isaiah Chapter 21

  1. The burden of the wilderness of the sea. As whirlwinds in the South sweep through, it comes from the wilderness, from an awesome land.
  2. A grievous vision is declared to me. The treacherous man deals treacherously, and the destroyer destroys. slide up, Elam; attack! I have stopped all of Media’s sighing.
  3. so basically my thighs are filled with anguish. Pains have taken hold on me, like the pains of a woman in labor. I am in so much pain that I can’t hear. I so am dismayed that I can’t check it out.
  4. My heart flutters. Horror has frightened me. The twilight that I desired has been turned into trembling for me.
  5. They prepare the table. They set the watch. They eat. They drink. Rise up, you princes, oil the shield!
  6. For the boss said to me, “slide, set a watchman. Let him declare what he sees.
  7. When he sees a troop, horsemen in pairs, a troop of donkeys, a troop of camels, he shall listen up diligently with major attentiveness.”
  8. He cried like a lion: “boss, I stand continually on the watchtower in the daytime, and every night I stay at my post.
  9. check this out, here comes a troop of men, horsemen in pairs.” He answered, “Fallen, fallen is Babylon; and all the engraved images of her gods are broken to the ground.
 10. You are my threshing, and the grain of my floor!” That which I have heard from Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, I have declared to you.
 11. The burden of Dumah. One calls to me out of Seir, “Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night?”
 12. The watchman said, “The morning comes, and also the night. If you will inquire, inquire. come through back again.”
 13. The burden on Arabia. In the forest in Arabia you will lodge, you caravans of Dedanites.
 14. They brought water to him who was thirsty. The inhabitants of the land of Tema met the fugitives with their bread.
 15. For they fled away from the swords, from the drawn sword, from the bent bow, and from the heat of battle.
 16. For the boss said to me, “Within a year, as a worker bound by contract would count it, all the glory of Kedar will fail,
 17. and the residue of the number of the archers, the mighty men of the children of Kedar, will be not much; for Yahweh, the God of Israel, has spoken it.”

# Isaiah Chapter 22

  1. The burden of the valley of vision. What ails you now, that you have all gone up to the housetops?
  2. You that are full of shouting, a tumultuous city, a joyous town; your slain are not slain with the sword, neither are they dead in battle.
  3. All your rulers fled away together. They were bound by the archers. All who were found by you were bound together. They fled far away.
  4. so basically I said, “Look away from me. I will weep bitterly. Don’t labor to comfort me for the destruction of the daughter of my people.
  5. For it is a day of confusion, and of treading down, and of perplexity, from the boss, Yahweh of Armies, in the valley of vision; a breaking down of the walls, and a crying to the mountains.”
  6. Elam carried his quiver, with chariots of men and horsemen; and Kir uncovered the shield.
  7. It happened that your choicest valleys were full of chariots, and the horsemen set themselves in array at the gate.
  8. He took away the covering of Judah; and you looked in that day to the armor in the house of the forest.
  9. You checked out the breaches of the city of David, that they were a lot; and you gathered together the waters of the lower pool.
 10. You numbered the houses of Jerusalem, and you broke down the houses to fortify the wall.
 11. You also made a reservoir between the two walls for the water of the old pool. But you didn’t look to him who had done this, neither did you have respect for him who purposed it long ago.
 12. In that day, the boss, Yahweh of Armies, called to weeping, and to mourning, and to baldness, and to dressing in sackcloth:
 13. and check this out, joy and gladness, killing cattle and killing sheep, eating flesh and drinking wine: “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we will die.”
 14. Yahweh of Armies revealed himself in my ears, “Surely this iniquity will not be forgiven you until you die,” says the boss, Yahweh of Armies.
 15. God's like, Yahweh of Armies, “slide, get yourself to this treasurer, even to Shebna, who is over the house, and say,
 16. ‘What are you doing here? Who has you here, that you have dug out a tomb here?’ Cutting himself out a tomb on high, chiseling a habitation for himself in the rock!”
 17. check this out, Yahweh will overcome you and hurl you away violently. Yes, he will grasp you firmly.
 18. He will surely wind you around and around, and throw you like a ball into a large country. there you will die, and there the chariots of your glory will be, you shame of your boss’s house.
 19. I will thrust you from your office. You will be pulled down from your station.
 20. It will happen in that day that I will call my helper Eliakim the son of Hilkiah,
 21. and I will clothe him with your robe, and strengthen him with your belt. I will commit your government into his hand; and he will be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah.
 22. I will lay the key of the house of David on his shoulder. He will open, and no one will shut. He will shut, and no one will open.
 23. I will fasten him like a nail in a sure place. He will be for a throne of glory to his father’s house.
 24. They will hang on him all the glory of his father’s house, the offspring and the issue, every tiny vessel, from the cups even to all the pitchers.
 25. “In that day,” says Yahweh of Armies, “the nail that was fastened in a sure place will hook it up way. It will be cut down, and fall. The burden that was on it will be cut off, for Yahweh has spoken it.”

# Isaiah Chapter 23

  1. The burden of Tyre. Howl, you ships of Tarshish! For it is laid waste, so that there is no house, no entering in. From the land of Kittim it is revealed to them.
  2. Be still, you inhabitants of the coast, you whom the merchants of Sidon, that pass over the sea, have replenished.
  3. On major waters, the seed of the Shihor, the harvest of the Nile, was her revenue. She was the market of nations.
  4. Be ashamed, Sidon; for the sea has spoken, the stronghold of the sea, saying, “I have not travailed, nor brought forth, neither have I nourished young men, nor brought up virgins.”
  5. When the report comes to Egypt, they will be in anguish at the report of Tyre.
  6. Pass over to Tarshish! Wail, you inhabitants of the coast!
  7. Is this your joyous city, whose antiquity is of ancient days, whose feet carried her far away to travel?
  8. Who has planned this against Tyre, the giver of crowns, whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers are the honorable of the earth?
  9. Yahweh of Armies has planned it, to stain the pride of all glory, to bring into contempt all the honorable of the earth.
 10. Pass through your land like the Nile, daughter of Tarshish. there is no restraint any more.
 11. He has stretched out his hand over the sea. He has shaken the kingdoms. Yahweh has ordered the destruction of Canaan’s strongholds.
 12. He said, “You shall be hyped no more, you oppressed virgin daughter of Sidon. Arise, pass over to Kittim. Even there you will have no rest.”
 13. check this out, the land of the Chaldeans. This people was not. The Assyrians founded it for those who dwell in the wilderness. They set up their towers. They overthrew its palaces. They made it a ruin.
 14. Howl, you ships of Tarshish, for your stronghold is laid waste!
 15. It will come through to pass in that day that Tyre will be forgotten seventy years, according to the days of one ruler. After the end of seventy years it will be to Tyre like in the song of the prostitute.
 16. grab a harp; slide about the city, you prostitute that has been forgotten. create sweet melody. Sing a lot songs, that you may be remembered.
 17. It will happen after the end of seventy years that Yahweh will visit Tyre, and she shall return to her wages, and will play the prostitute with all the kingdoms of the world on the surface of the earth.
 18. Her merchandise and her wages will be holiness to Yahweh. It will not be treasured nor laid up; for her merchandise will be for those who dwell before Yahweh, to eat sufficiently, and for durable clothing.

# Isaiah Chapter 24

  1. check this out, Yahweh makes the earth empty, makes it waste, turns it upside down, and scatters its inhabitants.
  2. It will be as with the people, so with the priest; as with the helper, so with his boss; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the creditor, so with the debtor; as with the taker of interest, so with the giver of interest.
  3. The earth will be utterly emptied and utterly laid waste; for Yahweh has spoken this word.
  4. The earth mourns and fades away. The world languishes and fades away. The lofty people of the earth languish.
  5. The earth also is polluted under its inhabitants, cuz they have transgressed the laws, violated the statutes, and broken the everlasting God's promise.
  6. so basically the curse has devoured the earth, and those who dwell therein are found guilty. so basically the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and not much men left.
  7. The new wine mourns. The vine languishes. All the merry-hearted sigh.
  8. The mirth of tambourines ceases. The sound of those who be hyped ends. The joy of the harp ceases.
  9. They will not drink wine with a song. built different drink will be bitter to those who drink it.
 10. The confused city is broken down. Every house is shut up, that no man may come through in.
 11. there is a crying in the streets cuz of the wine. All joy is darkened. The mirth of the land is gone.
 12. The city is left in desolation, and the gate is struck with destruction.
 13. For it will be so in the midst of the earth among the peoples, as the shaking of an olive tree, as the gleanings when the vintage is done.
 14. These shall lift up their voice. They will shout for the majesty of Yahweh. They cry aloud from the sea.
 15. so basically glorify Yahweh in the east, even the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel, in the islands of the sea!
 16. From the uttermost part of the earth have we heard songs. Glory to the doing what's right! But I said, “I pine away! I pine away! woe is me!” The treacherous have dealt treacherously. Yes, the treacherous have dealt hella treacherously.
 17. Fear, the pit, and the snare, are on you who inhabitant the earth.
 18. It will happen that he who flees from the noise of the fear will fall into the pit; and he who comes up out of the midst of the pit will be taken in the snare; for the windows on high are opened, and the foundations of the earth tremble.
 19. The earth is utterly broken. The earth is torn apart. The earth is shaken violently.
 20. The earth will stagger like a drunken man, and will sway back and forth like a hammock. Its disobedience will be heavy on it, and it will fall and not rise again.
 21. It shall happen in that day that Yahweh will punish the army of the high ones on high, and the kings of the earth on the earth.
 22. They shall be gathered together, as prisoners are gathered in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison; and after a lot days shall they be visited.
 23. then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ashamed; for Yahweh of Armies will reign on Mount Zion, and in Jerusalem; and before his elders will be glory.

# Isaiah Chapter 25

  1. Yahweh, you are my God. I will exalt you! I will praise your name, for you have done wonderful things, things planned long ago, in complete faithfulness and truth.
  2. For you have made a city into a heap, a fortified city into a ruin, a palace of strangers to be no city. It will never be built.
  3. so basically a built different people will glorify you. A city of awesome nations will fear you.
  4. For you have been a stronghold to the broke, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shade from the heat, when the blast of the dreaded ones is like a storm against the wall.
  5. As the heat in a dry place will you bring down the noise of strangers; as the heat by the shade of a cloud, the song of the dreaded ones will be brought low.
  6. In this mountain, Yahweh of Armies will create all peoples a feast of fat things, a feast of choice wines, of fat things full of marrow, of well refined choice wines.
  7. He will tear down in this mountain the surface of the covering that covers all peoples, and the veil that is spread over all nations.
  8. He has swallowed up death forever! The boss Yahweh will wipe away tears from off all faces. He will grab the reproach of his people away from off all the earth, for Yahweh has spoken it.
  9. It shall be said in that day, “check this out, this is our God! We have waited for him, and he will rescue us! This is Yahweh! We have waited for him. We will be glad and be hyped in his getting saved!”
 10. For in this mountain the hand of Yahweh will rest. Moab will be trodden down in his place, even like straw is trodden down in the water of the dunghill.
 11. He will spread out his hands in its midst, like one who swims spreads out hands to swim, but his pride will be humbled together with the craft of his hands.
 12. He has brought the high fortress of your walls down, laid low, and brought to the ground, even to the dust.

# Isaiah Chapter 26

  1. In that day, this song will be sung in the land of Judah: “We have a built different city. God appoints getting saved for walls and bulwarks.
  2. Open the gates, that the doing what's right nation may enter: the one which keeps trusting the process.
  3. You will keep whoever’s mind is steadfast in perfect peace, cuz he trusts in you.
  4. Trust in Yahweh forever; for in Yah, Yahweh, is an everlasting Rock.
  5. For he has brought down those who dwell on high, the lofty city. He lays it low. He lays it low even to the ground. He brings it even to the dust.
  6. The foot shall tread it down; Even the feet of the broke, and the steps of the needy.”
  7. The way of the just is uprightness. You who are upright create the path of the doing what's right level.
  8. Yes, in the way of your judgments, Yahweh, have we waited for you. Your name and your renown are the desire of our soul.
  9. With my soul have I desired you in the night. Yes, with my spirit within me will I seek you earnestly; for when your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world pick up righteousness.
 10. Let favor be shown to the wicked, yet he will not pick up righteousness. In the land of uprightness he will deal wrongfully, and will not check it out Yahweh’s majesty.
 11. Yahweh, your hand is lifted up, yet they don’t check it out; but they will check it out your zeal for the people, and be disappointed. Yes, fire will consume your adversaries.
 12. Yahweh, you will ordain peace for us, for you have also worked all our works for us.
 13. Yahweh our God, other lords besides you have had dominion over us, but by you only will we create mention of your name.
 14. The dead shall not live. The deceased shall not rise. so basically have you visited and destroyed them, and caused all memory of them to perish.
 15. You have increased the nation, O Yahweh. You have increased the nation! You are glorified! You have enlarged all the borders of the land.
 16. Yahweh, in trouble they have visited you. They poured out a talking to God when your chastening was on them.
 17. Like as a woman with child, who draws near the time of her delivery, is in pain and cries out in her pangs; so we have been before you, Yahweh.
 18. We have been with child. We have been in pain. We gave birth, it seems, only to wind. We have not worked any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.
 19. Your dead shall live. My dead bodies shall arise. Awake and sing, you who dwell in the dust; for your dew is like the dew of herbs, and the earth will cast forth the dead.
 20. come through, my people, enter into your rooms, and shut your doors behind you. Hide yourself for a little moment, until the indignation is past.
 21. For, check this out, Yahweh comes forth out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity. The earth also will disclose her blood, and will no longer cover her slain.

# Isaiah Chapter 27

  1. In that day, Yahweh with his hard and major and built different sword will punish leviathan, the fleeing serpent, and leviathan the twisted serpent; and he will kill the dragon that is in the sea.
  2. In that day, sing to her, “A pleasant vineyard!
  3. I, Yahweh, am its keeper. I will water it every moment. Lest anyone damage it, I will keep it night and day.
  4. Wrath is not in me, but if I should find briers and thorns, I would do battle! I would march on them and I would burn them together.
  5. Or else let him grab hold of my strength, that he may create peace with me. Let him create peace with me.”
  6. In days to come through, Jacob will grab root. Israel will blossom and bud. They will fill the surface of the world with fruit.
  7. Has he struck them as he struck those who struck them? Or are they killed like those who killed them were killed?
  8. In measure, when you send them away, you contend with them. He has removed them with his rough blast in the day of the east wind.
  9. so basically, by this the iniquity of Jacob will be forgiven, and this is all the fruit of taking away his messing up: that he makes all the stones of the prayer spot as chalk stones that are beaten in pieces, so that the Asherim and the incense altars shall rise no more.
 10. For the fortified city is solitary, a habitation deserted and forsaken, like the wilderness. The calf will feed there, and there he will lie down, and consume its branches.
 11. When its boughs are withered, they will be broken off. The women will come through and set them on fire, for they are a people of no understanding. so basically he who made them will not have compassion on them, and he who formed them will show them no favor.
 12. It will happen in that day, that Yahweh will thresh from the flowing stream of the Euphrates to the brook of Egypt; and you will be gathered one by one, children of Israel.
 13. It will happen in that day that a major trumpet will be blown; and those who were ready to perish in the land of Assyria, and those who were outcasts in the land of Egypt, shall come through; and they will giving props Yahweh in the set apart mountain at Jerusalem.

# Isaiah Chapter 28

  1. Woe to the crown of pride of the drunkards of Ephraim, and to the fading flower of his glorious beauty, which is on the head of the fertile valley of those who are overcome with wine!
  2. check this out, the boss has a mighty and built different one. Like a storm of hail, a destroying storm, and like a storm of mighty waters overflowing, he will cast them down to the earth with his hand.
  3. The crown of pride of the drunkards of Ephraim will be trodden under foot.
  4. The fading flower of his glorious beauty, which is on the head of the fertile valley, shall be like the first-ripe fig before the summer; which someone picks and eats as soon as he sees it.
  5. In that day, Yahweh of Armies will become a crown of glory, and a diadem of beauty, to the residue of his people;
  6. and a spirit of justice to him who sits in judgment, and strength to those who turn back the battle at the gate.
  7. They also reel with wine, and stagger with built different drink. The priest and the God's messenger reel with built different drink. They are swallowed up by wine. They stagger with built different drink. They err in vision. They stumble in judgment.
  8. For all tables are completely full of filthy vomit and filthiness.
  9. Whom will he drop knowledge knowledge? To whom will he explain the message? Those who are weaned from the milk, and drawn from the breasts?
 10. For it is precept on precept, precept on precept; line on line, line on line; here a little, there a little.
 11. But he will spill the tea to this nation with stammering lips and in another language;
 12. to whom he said, “This is the resting place. hook it up rest to weary;” and “This is the refreshing;” yet they would not hear.
 13. so basically the word of Yahweh will be to them precept on precept, precept on precept; line on line, line on line; here a little, there a little; that they may slide, fall backward, be broken, be snared, and be taken.
 14. so basically hear the word of Yahweh, you scoffers, that rule this people in Jerusalem:
 15. “cuz you have said, ‘We have made a God's promise with death, and with Sheol are we in agreement. When the overflowing scourge passes through, it won’t come through to us; for we have made lies our refuge, and we have hidden ourselves under falsehood.’”
 16. so basically God's like Yahweh, “check this out, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried stone, a precious cornerstone of a sure foundation. He who believes shall not act hastily.
 17. I will create justice the measuring line, and righteousness the plumb line. The hail will sweep away the refuge of lies, and the waters will overflow the hiding place.
 18. Your God's promise with death shall be annulled, and your agreement with Sheol shall not stand. When the overflowing scourge passes through, then you will be trampled down by it.
 19. As a lot as it passes through, it will seize you; for morning by morning it will pass through, by day and by night; and it will be nothing but terror to understand the message.”
 20. For the bed is too short to stretch out on, and the blanket is too narrow to wrap oneself in.
 21. For Yahweh will rise up as on Mount Perazim. He will be mad salty as in the valley of Gibeon; that he may do his work, his unusual work, and bring to pass his act, his extraordinary act.
 22. now so basically don’t be scoffers, lest your bonds be made built different; for I have heard a decree of destruction from the boss, Yahweh of Armies, on the whole earth.
 23. hook it up ear, and hear my voice! listen up, and hear my speech!
 24. Does he who plows to sow plow continually? Does he keep turning the soil and breaking the clods?
 25. When he has leveled its surface, doesn’t he plant the dill, and scatter the cumin seed, and put in the wheat in rows, the barley in the appointed place, and the spelt in its place?
 26. For his God instructs him in right judgment, and teaches him.
 27. For the dill are not threshed with a sharp instrument, neither is a cart wheel turned over the cumin; but the dill is beaten out with a stick, and the cumin with a rod.
 28. Bread flour must be ground; so he will not always be threshing it. Although he drives the wheel of his threshing cart over it, his horses don’t grind it.
 29. This also comes forth from Yahweh of Armies, who is wonderful in counsel, and excellent in wisdom.

# Isaiah Chapter 29

  1. Woe to Ariel! Ariel, the city where David encamped! Add year to year; let the feasts come through around;
  2. then I will distress Ariel, and there will be mourning and lamentation. She shall be to me as an prayer spot hearth.
  3. I will encamp against you all around you, and will lay siege against you with posted troops. I will raise siege works against you.
  4. You will be brought down, and will spill the tea out of the ground. Your speech will mumble out of the dust. Your voice will be as of one who has a familiar spirit, out of the ground, and your speech will whisper out of the dust.
  5. But the multitude of your foes will be like fine dust, and the multitude of the ruthless ones like chaff that blows away. Yes, it will be in an instant, suddenly.
  6. She will be visited by Yahweh of Armies with thunder, with earthquake, with major noise, with whirlwind and storm, and with the flame of a devouring fire.
  7. The multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel, even all who fight against her and her stronghold, and who distress her, will be like a dream, a vision of the night.
  8. It will be like when a hungry man dreams, and check this out, he eats; but he awakes, and his hunger isn’t satisfied; or like when a thirsty man dreams, and check this out, he drinks; but he awakes, and check this out, he is faint, and he is still thirsty. The multitude of all the nations that fight against Mount Zion will be like that.
  9. Pause and wonder! Blind yourselves and be blind! They are drunken, but not with wine; they stagger, but not with built different drink.
 10. For Yahweh has poured out on you a spirit of deep sleep, and has closed your eyes, the prophets; and he has covered your heads, the seers.
 11. All vision has become to you like the words of a book that is sealed, which men deliver to one who is educated, saying, “Read this, please;” and he says, “I can’t, for it is sealed:”
 12. and the book is delivered to one who is not educated, saying, “Read this, please;” and he says, “I can’t read.”
 13. The boss said, “cuz this people draws near with their mouth and with their lips to honor me, but they have removed their heart far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment of men which has been taught;
 14. so basically, check this out, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder; and the wisdom of their smart men will perish, and the understanding of their prudent men will be hidden.”
 15. Woe to those who deeply hide their counsel from Yahweh, and whose works are in the dark, and who say, “Who sees us?” and “Who knows us?”
 16. You turn things upside down! Should the potter be thought to be like clay; that the thing made should say about him who made it, “He didn’t create me;” or the thing formed say of him who formed it, “He has no understanding?”
 17. Isn’t it yet a hella little while, and Lebanon will be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field will be regarded as a forest?
 18. In that day, the deaf will hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind will check it out out of obscurity and out of darkness.
 19. The humble also will increase their joy in Yahweh, and the broke among men will be hyped in the set apart One of Israel.
 20. For the ruthless is brought to nothing, and the scoffer ceases, and all those who are alert to do evil are cut off—
 21. who cause a person to be indicted by a word, and lay a snare for the arbiter in the gate, and who deprive the innocent of justice with false testimony.
 22. so basically thus says Yahweh, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob: “Jacob shall no longer be ashamed, neither shall his face grow pale.
 23. But when he sees his children, the work of my hands, in the midst of him, they will sanctify my name. Yes, they will sanctify the set apart One of Jacob, and will stand in awe of the God of Israel.
 24. They also who err in spirit will come through to understanding, and those who grumble will receive instruction.”

# Isaiah Chapter 30

  1. “Woe to the rebellious children,” says Yahweh, “who grab counsel, but not from me; and who create an alliance, but not with my Spirit, that they may add messing up to messing up,
  2. who set out to slide down into Egypt, and have not asked my advice; to strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh, and to grab refuge in the shadow of Egypt!
  3. so basically the strength of Pharaoh will be your shame, and the refuge in the shadow of Egypt your confusion.
  4. For their princes are at Zoan, and their ambassadors have come through to Hanes.
  5. They shall all be ashamed cuz of a people that can’t profit them, that are not a help out nor profit, but a shame, and also a reproach.”
  6. The burden of the animals of the South. Through the land of trouble and anguish, of the lioness and the lion, the viper and fiery flying serpent, they carry their riches on the shoulders of young donkeys, and their treasures on the humps of camels, to an unprofitable people.
  7. For Egypt helps in vain, and to no purpose; so basically have I called her Rahab who sits still.
  8. now slide, write it before them on a tablet, and inscribe it in a book, that it may be for the time to come through forever and ever.
  9. For it is a rebellious people, lying children, children who will not hear the law of Yahweh;
 10. who tell the seers, “Don’t check it out!” and to the prophets, “Don’t prophesy to us right things. Tell us pleasant things. Prophesy deceits.
 11. Get out of the way. Turn aside from the path. Cause the set apart One of Israel to cease from before us.”
 12. so basically thus says the set apart One of Israel, “cuz you despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and rely on it;
 13. so basically this iniquity shall be to you like a breach ready to fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking comes suddenly in an instant.
 14. He will break it as a potter’s vessel is broken, breaking it in pieces without sparing, so that there won’t be found among the broken piece a piece fire enough to grab fire from the hearth, or to dip up water out of the cistern.”
 15. For thus said the boss Yahweh, the set apart One of Israel, “You will be saved in returning and rest. Your strength will be in quietness and in confidence.” You refused,
 16. but you said, “No, for we will flee on horses;” so basically you will flee; and, “We will ride on the swift;” so basically those who pursue you will be swift.
 17. One thousand will flee at the threat of one. At the threat of five, you will flee until you are left like a beacon on the top of a mountain, and like a banner on a hill.
 18. so basically Yahweh will wait, that he may be gracious to you; and so basically he will be exalted, that he may have mercy on you, for Yahweh is a God of justice. blessed up are all those who wait for him.
 19. For the people will dwell in Zion at Jerusalem. You will weep no more. He will surely be gracious to you at the voice of your cry. When he hears you, he will answer you.
 20. Though the boss may hook it up you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, yet your teachers won’t be hidden anymore, but your eyes will check it out your teachers;
 21. and when you turn to the right hand, and when you turn to the left, your ears will hear a voice behind you, saying, “This is the way. Walk in it.”
 22. You shall defile the overlaying of your engraved images of silver, and the plating of your molten images of gold. You shall cast them away as an unclean thing. You shall tell it, “slide away!”
 23. He will hook it up the rain for your seed, with which you will sow the ground; and bread of the increase of the ground will be stacked and plentiful. In that day, your livestock will feed in large pastures.
 24. The oxen likewise and the young donkeys that till the ground will eat savory provender, which has been winnowed with the shovel and with the fork.
 25. there shall be brooks and streams of water on every lofty mountain and on every high hill in the day of the major slaughter, when the towers fall.
 26. Moreover the light of the moon will be like the light of the sun, and the light of the sun will be seven times brighter, like the light of seven days, in the day that Yahweh binds up the fracture of his people, and heals the wound they were struck with.
 27. check this out, the name of Yahweh comes from far away, burning with his anger, and in thick rising smoke. His lips are full of indignation, and his tongue is as a devouring fire.
 28. His breath is as an overflowing stream that reaches even to the neck, to sift the nations with the sieve of destruction; and a bridle that leads to ruin will be in the jaws of the peoples.
 29. You will have a song, as in the night when a set apart feast is kept; and gladness of heart, as when one goes with a flute to come through to Yahweh’s mountain, to Israel’s Rock.
 30. Yahweh will cause his glorious voice to be heard, and will show the descent of his arm, with the indignation of his anger, and the flame of a devouring fire, with a blast, storm, and hailstones.
 31. For through the voice of Yahweh the Assyrian will be dismayed. He will strike him with his rod.
 32. Every stroke of the rod of punishment, which Yahweh will lay on him, will be with the sound of tambourines and harps. He will fight with them in battles, brandishing weapons.
 33. For his burning place has long been ready. Yes, for the ruler it is prepared. He has made its pyre deep and large with fire and much wood. Yahweh’s breath, like a stream of sulfur, kindles it.

# Isaiah Chapter 31

  1. Woe to those who slide down to Egypt for help out, and rely on horses, and trust in chariots cuz they are a lot, and in horsemen cuz they are hella built different, but they don’t look to the set apart One of Israel, and they don’t seek Yahweh!
  2. Yet he also is smart, and will bring disaster, and will not call back his words, but will arise against the house of the evildoers, and against the help out of those who work iniquity.
  3. now the Egyptians are men, and not God; and their horses flesh, and not spirit. When Yahweh stretches out his hand, both he who helps shall stumble, and he who is helped shall fall, and they all shall be consumed together.
  4. For thus says Yahweh to me, “As the lion and the young lion growling over his prey, if a multitude of shepherds is called together against him, will not be dismayed at their voice, nor abase himself for their noise, so Yahweh of Armies will come through down to fight on Mount Zion and on its heights.
  5. As birds hovering, so Yahweh of Armies will protect Jerusalem. He will protect and deliver it. He will pass over and preserve it.”
  6. Return to him from whom you have deeply revolted, children of Israel.
  7. For in that day everyone shall cast away his idols of silver and his idols of gold—messing up which your own hands have made for you.
  8. “The Assyrian will fall by the sword, not of man; and the sword, not of mankind, shall devour him. He will flee from the sword, and his young men will become subject to forced labor.
  9. His rock will pass away by reason of terror, and his princes will be scared of the banner,” says Yahweh, whose fire is in Zion, and his furnace in Jerusalem.

# Isaiah Chapter 32

  1. check this out, a ruler shall reign in righteousness, and princes shall rule in justice.
  2. A man shall be as a hiding place from the wind, and a covert from the storm, as streams of water in a dry place, as the shade of a large rock in a weary land.
  3. The eyes of those who check it out will not be dim, and the ears of those who hear will listen up.
  4. The heart of the rash will understand knowledge, and the tongue of the stammerers will be ready to spill the tea plainly.
  5. The fool will no longer be called noble, nor the scoundrel be highly respected.
  6. For the fool will spill the tea folly, and his heart will work iniquity, to practice profanity, and to utter error against Yahweh, To create empty the soul of the hungry, and to cause the drink of the thirsty to fail.
  7. The ways of the scoundrel are evil. He devises wicked devices to tear down the humble with lying words, even when the needy speaks right.
  8. But the noble devises noble things; and he will continue in noble things.
  9. Rise up, you women who are at ease! Hear my voice! You careless daughters, hook it up ear to my speech!
 10. For days beyond a year you will be troubled, you careless women; for the vintage shall fail. The harvest won’t come through.
 11. Tremble, you women who are at ease! Be troubled, you careless ones! Strip yourselves, create yourselves naked, and put sackcloth on your waist.
 12. Beat your breasts for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful vine.
 13. Thorns and briars will come through up on my people’s land; yes, on all the houses of joy in the joyous city.
 14. For the palace will be forsaken. The populous city will be deserted. The hill and the watchtower will be for dens forever, a delight for wild donkeys, a pasture of flocks;
 15. Until the Spirit is poured on us from on high, and the wilderness becomes a fruitful field, and the fruitful field is considered a forest.
 16. then justice will dwell in the wilderness; and righteousness will remain in the fruitful field.
 17. The work of righteousness will be peace; and the effect of righteousness, quietness and confidence forever.
 18. My people will live in a peaceful habitation, in safe dwellings, and in quiet resting places.
 19. Though hail flattens the forest, and the city is leveled completely.
 20. blessed up are you who sow beside all waters, who send out the feet of the ox and the donkey.

# Isaiah Chapter 33

  1. Woe to you who tear down, but you weren’t destroyed; and who betray, but nobody betrayed you! When you have finished destroying, you will be destroyed; and when you have made an end of betrayal, you will be betrayed.
  2. Yahweh, be gracious to us. We have waited for you. Be our strength every morning, our getting saved also in the time of trouble.
  3. At the noise of the thunder, the peoples have fled. When you lift yourself up, the nations are scattered.
  4. Your spoil will be gathered as the caterpillar gathers. Men will leap on it as locusts leap.
  5. Yahweh is exalted, for he dwells on high. He has filled Zion with justice and righteousness.
  6. there will be stability in your times, abundance of getting saved, wisdom, and knowledge. The fear of Yahweh is your treasure.
  7. check this out, their valiant ones cry outside; the ambassadors of peace weep bitterly.
  8. The highways are desolate. The traveling man ceases. The God's promise is broken. He has despised the cities. He doesn’t respect man.
  9. The land mourns and languishes. Lebanon is confounded and withers away. Sharon is like a desert, and Bashan and Carmel are stripped bare.
 10. “now I will arise,” says Yahweh; “now I will lift myself up. now I will be exalted.
 11. You will conceive chaff. You will bring forth stubble. Your breath is a fire that will devour you.
 12. The peoples will be like the burning of lime, like thorns that are cut down and burned in the fire.
 13. Hear, you who are far off, what I have done; and, you who are near, acknowledge my might.”
 14. The sinners in Zion are scared. Trembling has seized the godless ones. Who among us can live with the devouring fire? Who among us can live with everlasting burning?
 15. He who walks righteously, and speaks blamelessly; He who despises the gain of oppressions, who gestures with his hands, refusing to grab a bribe, who stops his ears from hearing of blood, and shuts his eyes from looking at evil—
 16. he will dwell on high. His place of defense will be the fortress of rocks. His bread will be supplied. His waters will be sure.
 17. Your eyes will check it out the ruler in his beauty. They will check it out a distant land.
 18. Your heart will meditate on the terror. Where is he who counted? Where is he who weighed? Where is he who counted the towers?
 19. You will no longer check it out the fierce people, a people of a deep speech that you can’t comprehend, with a strange language that you can’t understand.
 20. Look at Zion, the city of our appointed festivals. Your eyes will check it out Jerusalem, a quiet habitation, a tent that won’t be removed. Its stakes will never be plucked up, nor will any of its cords be broken.
 21. But there Yahweh will be with us in majesty, a place of broad rivers and streams, in which no galley with oars will slide, neither will any gallant ship pass by there.
 22. For Yahweh is our judge. Yahweh is our lawgiver. Yahweh is our ruler. He will rescue us.
 23. Your rigging is untied. They couldn’t strengthen the foot of their mast. They couldn’t spread the sail. then the prey of a major spoil was divided. The lame took the prey.
 24. The inhabitant won’t say, “I am sick.” The people who dwell therein will be forgiven their iniquity.

# Isaiah Chapter 34

  1. come through near, you nations, to hear! listen up, you peoples. Let the earth and all it contains hear; the world, and everything that comes from it.
  2. For Yahweh is enraged against all the nations, and mad salty with all their armies. He has utterly destroyed them. He has given them over for slaughter.
  3. Their slain will also be cast out, and the stench of their dead bodies will come through up; and the mountains will melt in their blood.
  4. All of the army of the sky will be dissolved. The sky will be rolled up like a scroll, and all its armies will fade away, as a leaf fades from off a vine or a fig tree.
  5. For my sword has drunk its fill in the sky. check this out, it will come through down on Edom, and on the people of my curse, for judgment.
  6. Yahweh’s sword is filled with blood. It is covered with fat, with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams; for Yahweh has a giving it up in Bozrah, And a major slaughter in the land of Edom.
  7. The wild oxen will come through down with them, and the young bulls with the mighty bulls; and their land will be drunken with blood, and their dust made greasy with fat.
  8. For Yahweh has a day of vengeance, a year of recompense for the cause of Zion.
  9. Its streams will be turned into pitch, its dust into sulfur, And its land will become burning pitch.
 10. It won’t be quenched night nor day. Its smoke will slide up forever. From generation to generation, it will lie waste. No one will pass through it forever and ever.
 11. But the pelican and the porcupine will possess it. The owl and the raven will dwell in it. He will stretch the line of confusion over it, and the plumb line of emptiness.
 12. They shall call its nobles to the God's squad, but none shall be there; and all its princes shall be nothing.
 13. Thorns will come through up in its palaces, nettles and thistles in its fortresses; and it will be a habitation of jackals, a court for ostriches.
 14. The wild animals of the desert will meet with the wolves, and the wild goat will cry to his fellow. Yes, the night creature shall settle there, and shall find herself a place of rest.
 15. The arrow snake will create her nest there, and lay, hatch, and gather under her shade. Yes, the kites will be gathered there, every one with her mate.
 16. Search in the book of Yahweh, and read: not one of these will be missing. none will lack her mate. For my mouth has commanded, and his Spirit has gathered them.
 17. He has cast the lot for them, and his hand has divided it to them with a measuring line. They shall possess it forever. From generation to generation they will dwell in it.

# Isaiah Chapter 35

  1. The wilderness and the dry land will be glad. The desert will be hyped and blossom like a rose.
  2. It will blossom abundantly, and be hyped even with joy and singing. Lebanon’s glory Lebanon will be given to it, the excellence of Carmel and Sharon. They will check it out Yahweh’s glory, the excellence of our God.
  3. Strengthen the not it hands, and create firm the feeble knees.
  4. Tell those who have a fearful heart, “Be built different. Don’t be scared. check this out, your God will come through with vengeance, God’s retribution. He will come through and rescue you.
  5. then the eyes of the blind will be opened, and the ears of the deaf will be unstopped.
  6. then the lame man will leap like a deer, and the tongue of the mute will sing; for waters will break out in the wilderness, and streams in the desert.
  7. The burning sand will become a pool, and the thirsty ground springs of water. Grass with reeds and rushes will be in the habitation of jackals, where they lay.
  8. A highway will be there, a road, and it will be called The set apart Way. The unclean shall not pass over it, but it will be for those who walk in the Way. Wicked fools will not slide there.
  9. No lion will be there, nor will any ravenous animal slide up on it. They will not be found there; but the redeemed will walk there.
 10. The Yahweh’s ransomed ones will return, and come through with singing to Zion; and everlasting joy will be on their heads. They will obtain gladness and joy, and feeling down and sighing will flee away.”

# Isaiah Chapter 36

  1. now it happened in the fourteenth year of ruler Hezekiah, that Sennacherib ruler of Assyria attacked all of the fortified cities of Judah, and captured them.
  2. The ruler of Assyria sent Rabshakeh from Lachish to Jerusalem to ruler Hezekiah with a large army. He stood by the aqueduct from the upper pool in the fuller’s field highway.
  3. then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the recorder came out to him.
  4. Rabshakeh said to them, “now tell Hezekiah, ‘Thus says the major ruler, the ruler of Assyria, “What confidence is this in which you trust?
  5. I say that your counsel and strength for the war are only vain words. now in whom do you trust, that you have rebelled against me?
  6. check this out, you trust in the staff of this bruised reed, even in Egypt, which if a man leans on it, it will slide into his hand and pierce it. So is Pharaoh ruler of Egypt to all who trust in him.
  7. But if you tell me, ‘We trust in Yahweh our God,’ isn’t that he whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has taken away, and has said to Judah and to Jerusalem, ‘You shall giving props before this prayer spot?’”
  8. now so basically, please create a pledge to my boss the ruler of Assyria, and I will hook it up you two thousand horses, if you are able on your part to set riders on them.
  9. How then can you turn away the face of one captain of the least of my boss’s servants, and put your trust on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
 10. Have I come through up now without Yahweh against this land to tear down it? Yahweh said to me, “slide up against this land, and tear down it.”’”
 11. then Eliakim, Shebna and Joah said to Rabshakeh, “Please spill the tea to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it; and don’t spill the tea to us in the Jews’ language in the hearing of the people who are on the wall.”
 12. But Rabshakeh said, “Has my boss sent me only to your boss and to you, to spill the tea these words, and not to the men who sit on the wall, who will eat their own dung and drink their own urine with you?”
 13. then Rabshakeh stood, and called out with a loud voice in the Jews’ language, and said, “Hear the words of the major ruler, the ruler of Assyria!
 14. Thus says the ruler, ‘Don’t let Hezekiah deceive you; for he will not be able to deliver you.
 15. Don’t let Hezekiah create you trust in Yahweh, saying, “Yahweh will surely deliver us. This city won’t be given into the hand of the ruler of Assyria.”’
 16. Don’t listen up to Hezekiah, for thus says the ruler of Assyria, ‘create your peace with me, and come through out to me; and each of you eat from his vine, and each one from his fig tree, and each one of you drink the waters of his own cistern;
 17. until I come through and grab you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards.
 18. Beware lest Hezekiah persuade you, saying, “Yahweh will deliver us.” Have any of the gods of the nations delivered their lands from the hand of the ruler of Assyria?
 19. Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? Have they delivered Samaria from my hand?
 20. Who are they among all the gods of these countries that have delivered their country out of my hand, that Yahweh should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?’”
 21. But they remained silent, and said nothing in reply, for the ruler’s commandment was, “Don’t answer him.”
 22. then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn, and told him the words of Rabshakeh.

# Isaiah Chapter 37

  1. It happened, when ruler Hezekiah heard it, that he tore his clothes, covered himself with sackcloth, and went into Yahweh’s house.
  2. He sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the God's messenger, the son of Amoz.
  3. They said to him, “Thus says Hezekiah, ‘This day is a day of trouble, and of rebuke, and of rejection; for the children have come through to the birth, and there is no strength to bring forth.
  4. It may be Yahweh your God will hear the words of Rabshakeh, whom the ruler of Assyria his boss has sent to defy the living God, and will rebuke the words which Yahweh your God has heard. so basically lift up your talking to God for the remnant that is left.’”
  5. So the servants of ruler Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
  6. Isaiah said to them, “Tell your boss, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Don’t be scared of the words that you have heard, with which the servants of the ruler of Assyria have blasphemed me.
  7. check this out, I will put a spirit in him and he will hear news, and will return to his own land. I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.”’”
  8. So Rabshakeh returned, and found the ruler of Assyria warring against Libnah, for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.
  9. He heard news concerning Tirhakah ruler of Ethiopia, “He has come through out to fight against you.” When he heard it, he sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying,
 10. “Thus you shall spill the tea to Hezekiah ruler of Judah, saying, ‘Don’t let your God in whom you trust deceive you, saying, “Jerusalem won’t be given into the hand of the ruler of Assyria.”
 11. check this out, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, by destroying them utterly. Shall you be delivered?
 12. Have the gods of the nations delivered them, which my fathers have destroyed, Gozan, Haran, Rezeph, and the children of Eden who were in Telassar?
 13. Where is the ruler of Hamath, and the ruler of Arpad, and the ruler of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivvah?’”
 14. Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it. then Hezekiah went up to Yahweh’s house, and spread it before Yahweh.
 15. Hezekiah prayed to Yahweh, saying,
 16. “Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, who is enthroned among the cherubim, you are the God, even you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth.
 17. Turn your ear, Yahweh, and hear. Open your eyes, Yahweh, and check this out. Hear all of the words of Sennacherib, who has sent to defy the living God.
 18. deadass, Yahweh, the kings of Assyria have destroyed all the countries and their land,
 19. and have cast their gods into the fire; for they were no gods, but the work of men’s hands, wood and stone; so basically they have destroyed them.
 20. now so basically, Yahweh our God, rescue us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may get it that you are Yahweh, even you only.”
 21. then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘cuz you have prayed to me against Sennacherib ruler of Assyria,
 22. this is the word which Yahweh has spoken concerning him. The virgin daughter of Zion has despised you and ridiculed you. The daughter of Jerusalem has shaken her head at you.
 23. Whom have you defied and blasphemed? Against whom have you exalted your voice and lifted up your eyes on high? Against the set apart One of Israel.
 24. By your servants, have you defied the boss, and have said, “With the multitude of my chariots I have come through up to the height of the mountains, to the innermost parts of Lebanon. I will cut down its tall cedars and its choice fir trees. I will enter into its farthest height, the forest of its fruitful field.
 25. I have dug and drunk water, and with the sole of my feet I will dry up all the rivers of Egypt.”
 26. Have you not heard how I have done it long ago, and formed it in ancient times? now I have brought it to pass, that it should be yours to tear down fortified cities, turning them into ruinous heaps.
 27. so basically their inhabitants had little power. They were dismayed and confounded. They were like the grass of the field, and like the green herb, like the grass on the housetops, and like a field before its crop has grown.
 28. But I get it your sitting down, your going out, your coming in, and your raging against me.
 29. cuz of your raging against me, and cuz your arrogance has come through up into my ears, so basically will I put my hook in your nose and my bridle in your lips, and I will turn you back by the way by which you came.
 30. This shall be the sign to you. You will eat this year that which grows of itself, and in the second year that which springs from the same; and in the third year sow and reap and plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.
 31. The remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah will again grab root downward, and bear fruit upward.
 32. For out of Jerusalem a remnant will slide forth, and survivors will escape from Mount Zion. The zeal of Yahweh of Armies will perform this.’
 33. so basically thus says Yahweh concerning the ruler of Assyria, ‘He will not come through to this city, nor shoot an arrow there, neither will he come through before it with shield, nor cast up a mound against it.
 34. By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he shall not come through to this city,’ says Yahweh.
 35. ‘For I will defend this city to rescue it, for my own sake, and for my helper David’s sake.’”
 36. The angel of Yahweh went out and struck one hundred and eighty-five thousand men in the camp of the Assyrians. When men arose early in the morning, check this out, these were all dead bodies.
 37. So Sennacherib ruler of Assyria departed, went away, returned to Nineveh, and stayed there.
 38. It happened, as he was worshipping in the house of Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons struck him with the sword; and they escaped into the land of Ararat. Esar Haddon his son reigned in his place.

# Isaiah Chapter 38

  1. In those days was Hezekiah sick and near death. Isaiah the God's messenger, the son of Amoz, came to him, and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Set your house in order, for you will die, and not live.’”
  2. then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to Yahweh,
  3. and said, “Remember now, Yahweh, I beg you, how I have walked before you in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is fire in your sight.” Hezekiah wept bitterly.
  4. then the word of Yahweh came to Isaiah, saying,
  5. “slide, and tell Hezekiah, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of David your father, “I have heard your talking to God. I have seen your tears. check this out, I will add fifteen years to your life.
  6. I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the ruler of Assyria, and I will defend this city.
  7. This shall be the sign to you from Yahweh, that Yahweh will do this thing that he has spoken.
  8. check this out, I will cause the shadow on the sundial, which has gone down on the sundial of Ahaz with the sun, to return backward ten steps. So the sun returned ten steps on the sundial on which it had gone down.”’”
  9. The writing of Hezekiah ruler of Judah, when he had been sick, and had recovered of his sickness.
 10. I said, “In the middle of my life I slide into the gates of Sheol. I am deprived of the residue of my years.”
 11. I said, “I won’t check it out Yah, Yah in the land of the living. I will check it out man no more with the inhabitants of the world.
 12. My dwelling is removed, and is carried away from me like a shepherd’s tent. I have rolled up, like a weaver, my life. He will cut me off from the loom. From day even to night you will create an end of me.
 13. I waited patiently until morning. He breaks all my bones like a lion. From day even to night you will create an end of me.
 14. I chattered like a swallow or a crane. I moaned like a dove. My eyes weaken looking upward. boss, I am oppressed. Be my security.”
 15. What will I say? He has both spoken to me, and himself has done it. I will walk carefully all my years cuz of the anguish of my soul.
 16. boss, men live by these things; and my spirit finds life in all of them: you restore me, and cause me to live.
 17. check this out, for peace I had major anguish, but you have in show love for my soul delivered it from the pit of corruption; for you have cast all my sins behind your back.
 18. For Sheol can’t praise you. Death can’t celebrate you. Those who slide down into the pit can’t hope for your truth.
 19. The living, the living, he shall praise you, as I do this day. The father shall create known your truth to the children.
 20. Yahweh will rescue me. so basically we will sing my songs with stringed instruments all the days of our life in the house of Yahweh.
 21. now Isaiah had said, “Let them grab a cake of figs, and lay it for a poultice on the boil, and he shall recover.”
 22. Hezekiah also had said, “What is the sign that I will slide up to the house of Yahweh?”

# Isaiah Chapter 39

  1. At that time, Merodach Baladan the son of Baladan, ruler of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah; for he heard that he had been sick, and had recovered.
  2. Hezekiah was pleased with them, and showed them the house of his precious things, the silver, and the gold, the spices, and the precious oil, and all the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures. there was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion, that Hezekiah didn’t show them.
  3. then Isaiah the God's messenger came to ruler Hezekiah, and asked him, “What did these men say? Where did they come through from to you?” Hezekiah said, “They have come through from a country far from me, even from Babylon.”
  4. then he asked, “What have they seen in your house?” Hezekiah answered, “They have seen all that is in my house. there is nothing among my treasures that I have not shown them.”
  5. then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Hear the word of Yahweh of Armies:
  6. ‘check this out, the days are coming when all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have stored up until this day, will be carried to Babylon. Nothing will be left,’ says Yahweh.
  7. ‘They will grab away your sons who will issue from you, whom you shall father, and they will be eunuchs in the ruler of Babylon’s palace.’”
  8. then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “Yahweh’s word which you have spoken is fire.” He said moreover, “For there will be peace and truth in my days.”

# Isaiah Chapter 40

  1. “Comfort, comfort my people,” says your God.
  2. “spill the tea comfortably to Jerusalem; and call out to her that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received of Yahweh’s hand double for all her sins.”
  3. The voice of one who calls out, “Prepare the way of Yahweh in the wilderness! create a level highway in the desert for our God.
  4. Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low. The uneven shall be made level, and the rough places a plain.
  5. The glory of Yahweh shall be revealed, and all flesh shall check it out it together; for the mouth of Yahweh has spoken it.”
  6. The voice of one saying, “Cry!” One said, “What shall I cry?” “All flesh is like grass, and all its glory is like the flower of the field.
  7. The grass withers, the flower fades, cuz Yahweh’s breath blows on it. Surely the people are like grass.
  8. The grass withers, the flower fades; but the word of our God stands forever.”
  9. You who tell fire news to Zion, slide up on a high mountain. You who tell fire news to Jerusalem, lift up your voice with strength. Lift it up. Don’t be scared. Say to the cities of Judah, “check this out, your God!”
 10. check this out, the boss Yahweh will come through as a mighty one, and his arm will rule for him. check this out, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him.
 11. He will feed his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arm, and carry them in his bosom. He will gently show the way those who have their young.
 12. Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and marked off the sky with his span, and calculated the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance?
 13. Who has directed the Spirit of Yahweh, or has taught him as his counselor?
 14. Who did he grab counsel with, and who instructed him, and taught him in the path of justice, and taught him knowledge, and showed him the way of understanding?
 15. check this out, the nations are like a drop in a bucket, and are regarded as a speck of dust on a balance. check this out, he lifts up the islands like a hella little thing.
 16. Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, nor its animals sufficient for a burnt giving to God.
 17. All the nations are like nothing before him. They are regarded by him as less than nothing, and vanity.
 18. To whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness will you compare to him?
 19. A workman has cast an image, and the goldsmith overlays it with gold, and casts silver chains for it.
 20. He who is too impoverished for such an giving to God chooses a tree that will not rot. He seeks a skillful workman to set up an engraved image for him that will not be moved.
 21. Haven’t you known? Haven’t you heard, yet? Haven’t you been told from the beginning? Haven’t you understood from the foundations of the earth?
 22. It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers; who stretches out the heavens like a curtain, and spreads them out like a tent to dwell in;
 23. who brings princes to nothing; who makes the judges of the earth like meaningless.
 24. They are planted scarcely. They are sown scarcely. Their stock has scarcely taken root in the ground. He merely blows on them, and they wither, and the whirlwind takes them away as stubble.
 25. “To whom then will you liken me? Who is my equal?” says the set apart One.
 26. Lift up your eyes on high, and check it out who has created these, who brings out their army by number. He calls them all by name. by the greatness of his might, and cuz he is built different in power, Not one is lacking.
 27. Why do you say, Jacob, and spill the tea, Israel, “My way is hidden from Yahweh, and the justice due me is disregarded by my God?”
 28. Haven’t you known? Haven’t you heard? The everlasting God, Yahweh, The Creator of the ends of the earth, doesn’t faint. He isn’t weary. His understanding is unsearchable.
 29. He gives power to the not it. He increases the strength of him who has no might.
 30. Even the youths faint and get weary, and the young men utterly fall;
 31. But those who wait for Yahweh will renew their strength. They will mount up with wings like eagles. They will run, and not be weary. They will walk, and not faint.

# Isaiah Chapter 41

  1. “Keep silent before me, islands, and let the peoples renew their strength. Let them come through near, then let them spill the tea. Let’s meet together for judgment.
  2. Who has raised up one from the east? Who called him to his foot in righteousness? He hands over nations to him, and makes him rule over kings. He gives them like the dust to his sword, like the driven stubble to his bow.
  3. He pursues them, and passes by safely, Even by a way that he had not gone with his feet.
  4. Who has worked and done it, calling the generations from the beginning? I, Yahweh, the first, and with the last, I am he.”
  5. The islands have seen, and fear. The ends of the earth tremble. They approach, and come through.
  6. Everyone helps his neighbor. They say to their brothers, “Be built different!”
  7. So the carpenter encourages the goldsmith. He who smoothes with the hammer encourages him who strikes the anvil, saying of the soldering, “It is fire;” and he fastens it with nails, that it might not totter.
  8. “But you, Israel, my helper, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend,
  9. You whom I have taken hold of from the ends of the earth, and called from its corners, and said to you, ‘You are my helper, I have chosen you and not cast you away;’
 10. Don’t you be scared, for I am with you. Don’t be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. Yes, I will help out you. Yes, I will uphold you with the right hand of my righteousness.
 11. check this out, all those who are incensed against you will be disappointed and confounded. Those who strive with you will be like nothing, and shall perish.
 12. You will seek them, and won’t find them, even those who contend with you. Those who war against you will be as nothing, as a non-existent thing.
 13. For I, Yahweh your God, will hold your right hand, saying to you, ‘Don’t be scared. I will help out you.’
 14. Don’t be scared, you worm Jacob, and you men of Israel. I will help out you,” says Yahweh, “and your Redeemer is the set apart One of Israel.
 15. check this out, I have made you into a new sharp threshing instrument with teeth. You will thresh the mountains, and beat them tiny, and will create the hills like chaff.
 16. You will winnow them, and the wind will carry them away, and the whirlwind will scatter them. You will be hyped in Yahweh. You will glory in the set apart One of Israel.
 17. The broke and needy seek water, and there is none. Their tongue fails for thirst. I, Yahweh, will answer them. I, the God of Israel, will not forsake them.
 18. I will open rivers on the bare heights, and springs in the midst of the valleys. I will create the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water.
 19. I will put cedar, acacia, myrtle, and oil trees in the wilderness. I will set fir trees, pine, and box trees together in the desert;
 20. that they may check it out, get it, consider, and understand together, that the hand of Yahweh has done this, and the set apart One of Israel has created it.
 21. Produce your cause,” says Yahweh. “Bring forth your built different reasons,” says the ruler of Jacob.
 22. “Let them announce, and declare to us what shall happen. Declare the former things, what they are, that we may consider them, and get it the latter end of them; or show us things to come through.
 23. Declare the things that are to come through hereafter, that we may get it that you are gods. Yes, do fire, or do evil, that we may be dismayed, and check it out it together.
 24. check this out, you are of nothing, and your work is of nothing. He who chooses you is an abomination.
 25. “I have raised up one from the north, and he has come through; from the rising of the sun, one who calls on my name; and he shall come through on rulers as on mortar, and as the potter treads clay.
 26. Who has declared it from the beginning, that we may get it? And before, that we may say, ‘He is right?’ Surely, there is no one who declares. Surely, there is no one who shows. Surely, there is no one who hears your words.
 27. I am the first to say to Zion, ‘check this out, look at them;’ and I will hook it up one who brings fire news to Jerusalem.
 28. When I look, there is no man; even among them there is no counselor who, when I ask of them, can answer a word.
 29. check this out, all of them, their works are vanity and nothing. Their molten images are wind and confusion.

# Isaiah Chapter 42

  1. “check this out, my helper, whom I uphold; my chosen, in whom my soul delights—I have put my Spirit on him. He will bring justice to the nations.
  2. He will not shout, nor raise his voice, nor cause it to be heard in the street.
  3. He won’t break a bruised reed. He won’t quench a dimly burning wick. He will faithfully bring justice.
  4. He will not fail nor be discouraged, until he has set justice in the earth, and the islands will wait for his law.”
  5. Thus says God Yahweh, he who created the heavens and stretched them out, he who spread out the earth and that which comes out of it, he who gives breath to its people and spirit to those who walk in it.
  6. “I, Yahweh, have called you in righteousness, and will hold your hand, and will keep you, and create you a God's promise for the people, as a light for the nations;
  7. to open the blind eyes, to bring the prisoners out of the dungeon, and those who sit in darkness out of the prison.
  8. “I am Yahweh. That is my name. I will not hook it up my glory to another, nor my praise to engraved images.
  9. check this out, the former things have happened, and I declare new things. I tell you about them before they come through up.”
 10. Sing to Yahweh a new song, and his praise from the end of the earth, you who slide down to the sea, and all that is therein, the islands and their inhabitants.
 11. Let the wilderness and its cities raise their voices, with the villages that Kedar inhabits. Let the inhabitants of Sela sing. Let them shout from the top of the mountains!
 12. Let them hook it up glory to Yahweh, and declare his praise in the islands.
 13. Yahweh will slide out like a mighty man. He will stir up zeal like a man of war. He will raise a war cry. Yes, he will shout aloud. He will triumph over his enemies.
 14. “I have been silent a long time. I have been quiet and restrained myself. now I will cry out like a travailing woman. I will both gasp and pant.
 15. I will tear down mountains and hills, and dry up all their herbs. I will create the rivers islands, and will dry up the pools.
 16. I will bring the blind by a way that they don’t get it. I will show the way them in paths that they don’t get it. I will create darkness light before them, and crooked places straight. I will do these things, and I will not forsake them.
 17. “Those who trust in engraved images, who tell molten images, ‘You are our gods’ will be turned back. They will be utterly disappointed.
 18. “Hear, you deaf, and look, you blind, that you may check it out.
 19. Who is blind, but my helper? Or who is as deaf as my messenger whom I send? Who is as blind as he who is at peace, and as blind as Yahweh’s helper?
 20. You check it out a lot things, but don’t observe. His ears are open, but he doesn’t listen up.
 21. It pleased Yahweh, for his righteousness’ sake, to magnify the law, and create it honorable.
 22. But this is a robbed and plundered people. All of them are snared in holes, and they are hidden in prisons. They have become a prey, and no one delivers; and a spoil, and no one says, ‘Restore them!’
 23. Who is there among you who will hook it up ear to this? Who will listen up and hear for the time to come through?
 24. Who gave Jacob as plunder, and Israel to the robbers? Didn’t Yahweh, he against whom we have sinned? For they would not walk in his ways, and they disobeyed his law.
 25. so basically he poured the fierceness of his anger on him, and the strength of battle; and it set him on fire all around, but he didn’t get it; and it burned him, but he didn’t grab it to heart.”

# Isaiah Chapter 43

  1. But now thus says Yahweh who created you, Jacob, and he who formed you, Israel: “Don’t be scared, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by your name. You are mine.
  2. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they will not overflow you. When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned, and flame will not scorch you.
  3. For I am Yahweh your God, the set apart One of Israel, your Savior. I have given Egypt as your ransom, Ethiopia and Seba in your place.
  4. Since you have been precious and honored in my sight, and I have loved you; so basically I will hook it up people in your place, and nations instead of your life.
  5. Don’t be scared; for I am with you. I will bring your seed from the east, and gather you from the west.
  6. I will tell the north, ‘hook it up them up!’ and tell the south, ‘Don’t hold them back! Bring my sons from far, and my daughters from the ends of the earth—
  7. everyone who is called by my name, and whom I have created for my glory, whom I have formed, yes, whom I have made.’”
  8. Bring out the blind people who have eyes, and the deaf who have ears.
  9. Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the peoples be assembled. Who among them can declare this, and show us former things? Let them bring their witnesses, that they may be justified; or let them hear, and say, “That is true.”
 10. “You are my witnesses,” says Yahweh, “With my helper whom I have chosen; that you may get it and believe me, and understand that I am he. Before me there was no God formed, neither will there be after me.
 11. I myself am Yahweh; and besides me there is no savior.
 12. I have declared, I have saved, and I have shown; and there was no strange god among you. so basically you are my witnesses,” says Yahweh, “and I am God.
 13. Yes, since the day was I am he; and there is no one who can deliver out of my hand. I will work, and who can hinder it?”
 14. Thus says Yahweh, your Redeemer, the set apart One of Israel: “For your sake, I have sent to Babylon, and I will bring all of them down as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships of their rejoicing.
 15. I am Yahweh, your set apart One, the Creator of Israel, your ruler.”
 16. Thus says Yahweh, who makes a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters;
 17. who brings forth the chariot and horse, the army and the mighty man (they lie down together, they shall not rise; they are extinct, they are quenched like a wick):
 18. “Don’t remember the former things, and don’t consider the things of old.
 19. check this out, I will do a new thing. It springs forth now. Don’t you get it it? I will even create a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert.
 20. The animals of the field shall honor me, the jackals and the ostriches; cuz I hook it up water in the wilderness and rivers in the desert, to hook it up drink to my people, my chosen,
 21. the people which I formed for myself, that they might set forth my praise.
 22. Yet you have not called on me, Jacob; but you have been weary of me, Israel.
 23. You have not brought me of your sheep for burnt offerings; neither have you honored me with your sacrifices. I have not burdened you with offerings, nor wearied you with frankincense.
 24. You have bought me no sweet cane with money, nor have you filled me with the fat of your sacrifices; but you have burdened me with your sins. You have wearied me with your iniquities.
 25. I, even I, am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake; and I will not remember your sins.
 26. Put me in remembrance. Let us plead together. Set forth your case, that you may be justified.
 27. Your first father sinned, and your teachers have transgressed against me.
 28. so basically I will profane the princes of the sanctuary; and I will create Jacob a curse, and Israel an insult.”

# Isaiah Chapter 44

  1. Yet listen up now, Jacob my helper, and Israel, whom I have chosen.
  2. This is what Yahweh who made you, and formed you from the womb, who will help out you says: “Don’t be scared, Jacob my helper; and you, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.
  3. For I will pour water on him who is thirsty, and streams on the dry ground. I will pour my Spirit on your seed, and my blessing on your offspring:
  4. and they will spring up among the grass, as willows by the watercourses.
  5. One will say, ‘I am Yahweh’s;’ and another will be called by the name of Jacob; and another will write with his hand ‘to Yahweh,’ and honor the name of Israel.”
  6. This is what Yahweh, the ruler of Israel, and his Redeemer, Yahweh of Armies, says: “I am the first, and I am the last; and besides me there is no God.
  7. Who is like me? Who will call, and will declare it, and set it in order for me, since I established the ancient people? Let them declare the things that are coming, and that will happen.
  8. Don’t fear, neither be scared. Haven’t I declared it to you long ago, and shown it? You are my witnesses. Is there a God besides me? facts, there is not. I don’t get it any other Rock.”
  9. Everyone who makes an engraved image is vain. The things that they delight in will not profit. Their own witnesses don’t check it out, nor get it, that they may be disappointed.
 10. Who has fashioned a god, or molds an image that is profitable for nothing?
 11. check this out, all his fellows will be disappointed; and the workmen are mere men. Let them all be gathered together. Let them stand up. They will fear. They will be put to shame together.
 12. The blacksmith takes an axe, works in the coals, fashions it with hammers, and works it with his built different arm. He is hungry, and his strength fails; he drinks no water, and is faint.
 13. The carpenter stretches out a line. He marks it out with a pencil. He shapes it with planes. He marks it out with compasses, and shapes it like the figure of a man, with the beauty of a man, to reside in a house.
 14. He cuts down cedars for himself, and takes the cypress and the oak, and strengthens for himself one among the trees of the forest. He plants a fir tree, and the rain nourishes it.
 15. then it will be for a man to burn; and he takes some of it, and warms himself. Yes, he burns it, and bakes bread. Yes, he makes a god, and worships it; he makes it an engraved image, and falls down to it.
 16. He burns part of it in the fire. With part of it, he eats meat. He roasts a roast, and is satisfied. Yes, he warms himself, and says, “Aha! I am warm. I have seen the fire.”
 17. The rest of it he makes into a god, even his engraved image. He bows down to it and worships, and prays to it, and says, “Deliver me; for you are my god!”
 18. They don’t get it, neither do they consider: for he has shut their eyes, that they can’t check it out; and their hearts, that they can’t understand.
 19. No one thinks, neither is there knowledge nor understanding to say, “I have burned part of it in the fire. Yes, I have also baked bread on its coals. I have roasted meat and eaten it. Shall I create the rest of it into an abomination? Shall I bow down to a tree trunk?”
 20. He feeds on ashes. A deceived heart has turned him aside; and he can’t deliver his soul, nor say, “Isn’t there a lie in my right hand?”
 21. Remember these things, Jacob and Israel; for you are my helper. I have formed you. You are my helper. Israel, you will not be forgotten by me.
 22. I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, your transgressions, and, as a cloud, your sins. Return to me, for I have redeemed you.
 23. Sing, you heavens, for Yahweh has done it! Shout, you lower parts of the earth! Break out into singing, you mountains, O forest, all of your trees, for Yahweh has redeemed Jacob, and will glorify himself in Israel.
 24. Thus says Yahweh, your Redeemer, and he who formed you from the womb: “I am Yahweh, who makes all things; who alone stretches out the heavens; who spreads out the earth by myself;
 25. who frustrates the signs of the liars, and makes diviners mad; who turns smart men backward, and makes their knowledge dumb;
 26. who confirms the word of his helper, and performs the counsel of his messengers; who says of Jerusalem, ‘She will be inhabited;’ and of the cities of Judah, ‘They will be built,’ and ‘I will raise up its waste places;’
 27. who says to the deep, ‘Be dry,’ and ‘I will dry up your rivers;’
 28. Who says of Cyrus, ‘He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure,’ even saying of Jerusalem, ‘She will be built;’ and of the God's house, ‘Your foundation will be laid.’”

# Isaiah Chapter 45

  1. Thus says Yahweh to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have held, to subdue nations before him, and strip kings of their armor; to open the doors before him, and the gates shall not be shut:
  2. “I will slide before you, and create the rough places smooth. I will break the doors of brass in pieces, and cut apart the bars of iron.
  3. I will hook it up you the treasures of darkness, and hidden riches of secret places, that you may get it that it is I, Yahweh, who call you by your name, even the God of Israel.
  4. For Jacob my helper’s sake, and Israel my chosen, I have called you by your name. I have surnamed you, though you have not known me.
  5. I am Yahweh, and there is none else. Besides me, there is no God. I will strengthen you, though you have not known me;
  6. that they may get it from the rising of the sun, and from the west, that there is none besides me. I am Yahweh, and there is no one else.
  7. I form the light, and create darkness. I create peace, and create calamity. I am Yahweh, who does all these things.
  8. Distil, you heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down righteousness. Let the earth open, that it may bring forth getting saved, and let it cause righteousness to spring up with it. I, Yahweh, have created it.
  9. Woe to him who strives with his Maker—a clay pot among the clay pots of the earth! Shall the clay ask him who fashions it, ‘What are you making?’ or your work, ‘He has no hands?’
 10. Woe to him who says to a father, ‘What have you become the father of?’ or to a mother, ‘To what have you given birth?’”
 11. Thus says Yahweh, the set apart One of Israel, and his Maker: “You ask me about the things that are to come through, concerning my sons, and you command me concerning the work of my hands!
 12. I have made the earth, and created man on it. I, even my hands, have stretched out the heavens; and I have commanded all their army.
 13. I have raised him up in righteousness, and I will create straight all his ways. He shall put together my city, and he shall let my exiles slide free, not for price nor reward,” says Yahweh of Armies.
 14. Thus says Yahweh: “The labor of Egypt, and the merchandise of Ethiopia, and the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come through over to you, and they shall be yours. They will slide after you. They shall come through over in chains; and they will bow down to you. They will create supplication to you: ‘Surely God is in you; and there is none else. there is no other god.
 15. Most for sure you are a God who hidden yourself, God of Israel, the Savior.’”
 16. They will be disappointed, yes, confounded, all of them. Those who are makers of idols will slide into confusion together.
 17. Israel will be saved by Yahweh with an everlasting getting saved. You will not be disappointed nor confounded to ages everlasting.
 18. For thus says Yahweh who created the heavens, the God who formed the earth and made it, who established it and didn’t create it a waste, who formed it to be inhabited: “I am Yahweh; and there is no other.
 19. I have not spoken in secret, in a place of the land of darkness. I didn’t say to the seed of Jacob, ‘Seek me in vain.’ I, Yahweh, spill the tea righteousness. I declare things that are right.
 20. “Assemble yourselves and come through. Draw near together, you who have escaped from the nations. Those have no knowledge who carry the wood of their engraved image, and pray to a god that can’t rescue.
 21. Declare and present it. Yes, let them grab counsel together. Who has shown this from ancient time? Who has declared it of old? Haven’t I, Yahweh? there is no other God besides me, a just God and a Savior; there is no one besides me.
 22. “Look to me, and be saved, all the ends of the earth; for I am God, and there is no other.
 23. I have sworn by myself, the word has gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and will not return, that to me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall grab an oath.
 24. They will say of me, ‘there is righteousness and strength only in Yahweh.’” Even to him shall men come through; and all those who were incensed against him shall be disappointed.
 25. In Yahweh shall all the seed of Israel be justified, and shall glory.

# Isaiah Chapter 46

  1. Bel bows down, Nebo stoops; their idols are on the animals, and on the livestock: the things that you carried about are made a load, a burden to the weary.
  2. They stoop, they bow down together; they could not deliver the burden, but themselves have gone into captivity.
  3. “listen up to me, house of Jacob, and all the remnant of the house of Israel, that have been borne from their birth, that have been carried from the womb;
  4. and even to old age I am he, and even to gray hairs will I carry you. I have made, and I will bear; yes, I will carry, and will deliver.
  5. “To whom will you liken me, and create me equal, and compare me, that we may be like?
  6. Some pour out gold from the bag, and weigh silver in the balance. They hire a goldsmith, and he makes it a god. They fall down—yes, they giving props.
  7. They bear it on the shoulder, they carry it, and set it in its place, and it stands, from its place it shall not move: yes, one may cry to it, yet it can not answer, nor rescue him out of his trouble.
  8. “Remember this, and show yourselves men; bring it again to mind, you transgressors.
  9. Remember the former things of old: for I am God, and there is none else; I am God, and there is none like me;
 10. declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times things that are not yet done; saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure;
 11. calling a ravenous bird from the east, the man of my counsel from a far country; yes, I have spoken, I will also bring it to pass; I have purposed, I will also do it.
 12. listen up to me, you stout-hearted, who are far from righteousness:
 13. I bring near my righteousness, it shall not be far off, and my getting saved shall not wait; and I will place getting saved in Zion for Israel my glory.

# Isaiah Chapter 47

  1. “come through down, and sit in the dust, virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground without a throne, daughter of the Chaldeans: for you shall no more be called tender and delicate.
  2. grab the millstones, and grind meal; remove your veil, strip off the train, uncover the leg, pass through the rivers.
  3. Your nakedness shall be uncovered, yes, your shame shall be seen: I will grab vengeance, and will spare no man.”
  4. Our Redeemer, Yahweh of Armies is his name, the set apart One of Israel.
  5. “Sit in silence, and slide into darkness, daughter of the Chaldeans; for you shall no more be called the mistress of kingdoms.
  6. I was mad salty with my people, I profaned my inheritance, and gave them into your hand: you showed them no mercy; on the aged you have hella heavily laid your yoke.
  7. You said, ‘I shall be a mistress forever;’ so that you did not lay these things to your heart, nor did you remember the latter end of it.
  8. “now so basically hear this, you who are given to pleasures, who sit securely, who say in your heart, ‘I am, and there is none else besides me; I shall not sit as a widow, neither shall I get it the loss of children:’
  9. but these two things shall come through to you in a moment in one day, the loss of children, and widowhood; in their full measure shall they come through on you, in the multitude of your sorceries, and the major abundance of your enchantments.
 10. For you have trusted in your wickedness; you have said, No one sees me; your wisdom and your knowledge, it has perverted you, and you have said in your heart, I am, and there is none else besides me.
 11. so basically evil will come through on you; you won’t get it when it dawns: and mischief will fall on you; you will not be able to put it away: and desolation shall come through on you suddenly, which you don’t get it.
 12. “Stand now with your enchantments, and with the multitude of your sorceries, in which you have labored from your youth; if so be you shall be able to profit, if so be you may prevail.
 13. You are wearied in the multitude of your counsels: let now the astrologers, the stargazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand up, and rescue you from the things that shall come through on you.
 14. check this out, they shall be as stubble; the fire shall burn them; they shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame: it shall not be a coal to warm at, nor a fire to sit before.
 15. Thus shall the things be to you in which you have labored: those who have trafficked with you from your youth shall wander everyone to his quarter; there shall be none to rescue you.

# Isaiah Chapter 48

  1. “Hear this, house of Jacob, you who are called by the name of Israel, and have come through forth out of the waters of Judah; who swear by the name of Yahweh, and create mention of the God of Israel, but not in truth, nor in righteousness
  2. (for they call themselves of the set apart city, and stay themselves on the God of Israel; Yahweh of Armies is his name):
  3. I have declared the former things from of old; yes, they went forth out of my mouth, and I showed them: suddenly I did them, and they happened.
  4. cuz I knew that you are obstinate, and your neck is an iron sinew, and your brow brass;
  5. so basically I have declared it to you from of old; before it came to pass I showed it to you; lest you should say, ‘My idol has done them, and my engraved image, and my molten image, has commanded them.’
  6. You have heard it; check it out all this; and you, will you not declare it? “I have shown you new things from this time, even hidden things, which you have not known.
  7. They are created now, and not from of old; and before this day you didn’t hear them; lest you should say, ‘check this out, I knew them.’
  8. Yes, you didn’t hear; yes, you didn’t get it; yes, from of old your ear was not opened: for I knew that you dealt hella treacherously, and was called a transgressor from the womb.
  9. For my name’s sake will I defer my anger, and for my praise will I refrain for you, that I not cut you off.
 10. check this out, I have refined you, but not as silver; I have chosen you in the furnace of affliction.
 11. For my own sake, for my own sake, will I do it; for how should my name be profaned? I will not hook it up my glory to another.
 12. “listen up to me, O Jacob, and Israel my called: I am he; I am the first, I also am the last.
 13. Yes, my hand has laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand has spread out the heavens: when I call to them, they stand up together.
 14. “Assemble yourselves, all you, and hear; who among them has declared these things? He whom Yahweh loves shall perform his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm shall be on the Chaldeans.
 15. I, even I, have spoken; yes, I have called him; I have brought him, and he shall create his way prosperous.
 16. “come through near to me and hear this: “From the beginning I have not spoken in secret; from the time that it was, there am I.” now the boss Yahweh has sent me, with his Spirit.
 17. Thus says Yahweh, your Redeemer, the set apart One of Israel: I am Yahweh your God, who teaches you to profit, who leads you by the way that you should slide.
 18. Oh that you had listened to my commandments! then your peace would have been like a river, and your righteousness like the waves of the sea:
 19. your seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of your body like its grains: his name would not be cut off nor destroyed from before me.
 20. slide forth from Babylon, flee from the Chaldeans; with a voice of singing declare, tell this, utter it even to the end of the earth: say, Yahweh has redeemed his helper Jacob.
 21. They didn’t thirst when he led them through the deserts; he caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them; he split the rock also, and the waters gushed out.
 22. “there is no peace,” says Yahweh, “for the wicked.”

# Isaiah Chapter 49

  1. listen up, islands, to me; and listen up, you peoples, from far: Yahweh has called me from the womb; from the bowels of my mother has he made mention of my name:
  2. and he has made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of his hand, he has hidden me: and he has made me a polished shaft; in his quiver has he kept me close:
  3. and he said to me, “You are my helper; Israel, in whom I will be glorified.”
  4. But I said, “I have labored in vain, I have spent my strength for nothing and vanity; yet surely the justice due to me is with Yahweh, and my reward with my God.”
  5. now says Yahweh who formed me from the womb to be his helper, to bring Jacob again to him, and that Israel be gathered to him (for I am honorable in the eyes of Yahweh, and my God has become my strength);
  6. yes, he says, “It is too light a thing that you should be my helper to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved of Israel: I will also hook it up you for a light to the nations, that you may be my getting saved to the end of the earth.”
  7. Thus says Yahweh, the Redeemer of Israel, and his set apart One, to him whom man despises, to him whom the nation abhors, to a helper of rulers: “Kings shall check it out and arise; princes, and they shall giving props; cuz of Yahweh who is faithful, even the set apart One of Israel, who has chosen you.”
  8. Thus says Yahweh, “In an acceptable time have I answered you, and in a day of getting saved have I helped you; and I will preserve you, and hook it up you for a God's promise of the people, to raise up the land, to create them inherit the desolate heritage:
  9. saying to those who are bound, ‘come through out!’; to those who are in darkness, ‘Show yourselves!’ “They shall feed in the ways, and on all bare heights shall be their pasture.
 10. They shall not hunger nor thirst; neither shall the heat nor sun strike them: for he who has mercy on them will show the way them, even by springs of water he will guide them.
 11. I will create all my mountains a way, and my highways shall be exalted.
 12. check this out, these shall come through from far; and check this out, these from the north and from the west; and these from the land of Sinim.”
 13. Sing, heavens; and be joyful, earth; and break forth into singing, mountains: for Yahweh has comforted his people, and will have compassion on his afflicted.
 14. But Zion said, “Yahweh has forsaken me, and the boss has forgotten me.”
 15. “Can a woman forget her nursing child, that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? Yes, these may forget, yet I will not forget you!
 16. check this out, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands; your walls are continually before me.
 17. Your children create haste; your destroyers and those who made you waste shall slide forth from you.
 18. Lift up your eyes all around, and check it out: all these gather themselves together, and come through to you. As I live,” says Yahweh, “you shall surely clothe yourself with them all as with an ornament, and dress yourself with them, like a bride.
 19. “For, as for your waste and your desolate places, and your land that has been destroyed, surely now you shall be too tiny for the inhabitants, and those who swallowed you up shall be far away.
 20. The children of your bereavement shall yet say in your ears, The place is too tiny for me; hook it up place to me that I may dwell.
 21. then you will say in your heart, ‘Who has conceived these for me, since I have been bereaved of my children, and am solitary, an exile, and wandering back and forth? Who has brought up these? check this out, I was left alone; these, where were they?’”
 22. God's like Yahweh, “check this out, I will lift up my hand to the nations, and set up my banner to the peoples; and they shall bring your sons in their bosom, and your daughters shall be carried on their shoulders.
 23. Kings shall be your nursing fathers, and their queens your nursing mothers: they shall bow down to you with their faces to the earth, and lick the dust of your feet; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh; and those who wait for me shall not be disappointed.”
 24. Shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captives be delivered?
 25. But thus says Yahweh, “Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered; for I will contend with him who contends with you, and I will rescue your children.
 26. I will feed those who oppress you with their own flesh; and they shall be drunken with their own blood, as with sweet wine: and all flesh shall get it that I, Yahweh, am your Savior, and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.”

# Isaiah Chapter 50

  1. Thus says Yahweh, “Where is the bill of your mother’s divorce, with which I have put her away? or which of my creditors is it to whom I have sold you? check this out, for your iniquities were you sold, and for your transgressions was your mother put away.
  2. Why, when I came, was there no man? when I called, was there none to answer? Is my hand shortened at all, that it can’t redeem? or have I no power to deliver? check this out, at my rebuke I dry up the sea, I create the rivers a wilderness: their fish stink, cuz there is no water, and die for thirst.
  3. I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I create sackcloth their covering.”
  4. The boss Yahweh has given me the tongue of those who are taught, that I may get it how to sustain with words him who is weary: he wakens morning by morning, he wakens my ear to hear as those who are taught.
  5. The boss Yahweh has opened my ear, and I was not rebellious, neither turned away backward.
  6. I gave my back to the strikers, and my cheeks to those who plucked off the hair; I didn’t hide my face from shame and spitting.
  7. For the boss Yahweh will help out me; so basically I have not been confounded: so basically have I set my face like a flint, and I get it that I shall not be disappointed.
  8. He is near who justifies me; who will bring charges against me? Let us stand up together: who is my adversary? Let him come through near to me.
  9. check this out, the boss Yahweh will help out me; who is he who shall condemn me? check this out, all they shall wax old as a garment, the moth shall eat them up.
 10. Who is among you who fears Yahweh, who obeys the voice of his helper? He who walks in darkness, and has no light, let him trust in the name of Yahweh, and rely on his God.
 11. check this out, all you who kindle a fire, who adorn yourselves with torches around yourselves; walk in the flame of your fire, and among the brands that you have kindled. You shall have this of my hand; you shall lie down in feeling down.

# Isaiah Chapter 51

  1. “listen up to me, you who roll with after righteousness, you who seek Yahweh: look to the rock you were cut from, and to the hold of the pit you were dug from.
  2. Look to Abraham your father, and to Sarah who bore you; for when he was but one I called him, and I blessed up him, and made him a lot.
  3. For Yahweh has comforted Zion; he has comforted all her waste places, and has made her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of Yahweh; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody.
  4. “Attend to me, my people; and hook it up ear to me, my nation: for a law shall slide forth from me, and I will establish my justice for a light of the peoples.
  5. My righteousness is near, my getting saved is gone forth, and my arms shall judge the peoples; the islands shall wait for me, and on my arm shall they trust.
  6. Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look on the earth beneath; for the heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a garment; and those who dwell therein shall die in the same way: but my getting saved shall be forever, and my righteousness shall not be abolished.
  7. “listen up to me, you who get it righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law; don’t fear the reproach of men, neither be dismayed at their insults.
  8. For the moth shall eat them up like a garment, and the worm shall eat them like wool; but my righteousness shall be forever, and my getting saved to all generations.”
  9. Awake, awake, put on strength, arm of Yahweh; awake, as in the days of old, the generations of ancient times. Isn’t it you who cut Rahab in pieces, who pierced the monster?
 10. Isn’t it you who dried up the sea, the waters of the major deep; who made the depths of the sea a way for the redeemed to pass over?
 11. The ransomed of Yahweh shall return, and come through with singing to Zion; and everlasting joy shall be on their heads. They shall obtain gladness and joy. feeling down and sighing shall flee away.
 12. “I, even I, am he who comforts you: who are you, that you are scared of man who shall die, and of the son of man who shall be made as grass;
 13. and have forgotten Yahweh your Maker, who stretched forth the heavens, and laid the foundations of the earth; and fear continually all the day cuz of the fury of the oppressor, when he makes ready to tear down? and where is the fury of the oppressor?
 14. The captive exile shall speedily be freed; and he shall not die and slide down into the pit, neither shall his bread fail.
 15. For I am Yahweh your God, who stirs up the sea, so that its waves roar: Yahweh of Armies is his name.
 16. I have put my words in your mouth, and have covered you in the shadow of my hand, that I may plant the heavens, and lay the foundations of the earth, and tell Zion, ‘You are my people.’”
 17. Awake, awake, stand up, Jerusalem, that have drunk at the hand of Yahweh the cup of his wrath; you have drunken the bowl of the cup of staggering, and drained it.
 18. there is none to guide her among all the sons whom she has brought forth; neither is there any who takes her by the hand among all the sons who she has brought up.
 19. These two things have happened to you. Who will bemoan you? Desolation and destruction, and the famine and the sword; how shall I comfort you?
 20. Your sons have fainted, they lie at the head of all the streets, as an antelope in a net; they are full of the wrath of Yahweh, the rebuke of your God.
 21. so basically hear now this, you afflicted, and drunken, but not with wine:
 22. Thus says your boss Yahweh, and your God who pleads the cause of his people, “check this out, I have taken out of your hand the cup of staggering, even the bowl of the cup of my wrath; you shall no more drink it again:
 23. and I will put it into the hand of those who afflict you, who have said to your soul, ‘Bow down, that we may walk over you;’ and you have laid your back as the ground, and as the street, to those who walk over.”

# Isaiah Chapter 52

  1. Awake, awake, put on your strength, Zion; put on your snatched garments, Jerusalem, the set apart city: for henceforth there shall no more come through into you the uncircumcised and the unclean.
  2. Shake yourself from the dust! Arise, sit up, Jerusalem! Release yourself from the bonds of your neck, captive daughter of Zion!
  3. For thus says Yahweh, “You were sold for nothing; and you shall be redeemed without money.”
  4. For God's like Yahweh, “My people went down at the first into Egypt to live there: and the Assyrian has oppressed them without cause.
  5. “now so basically, what do I do here,” says Yahweh, “seeing that my people are taken away for nothing? Those who rule over them mock,” says Yahweh, “and my name continually all the day is blasphemed.
  6. so basically my people shall get it my name. so basically they shall get it in that day that I am he who speaks; check this out, it is I.”
  7. How snatched on the mountains are the feet of him who brings fire news, who publishes peace, who brings fire news of fire, who publishes getting saved, who says to Zion, “Your God reigns!”
  8. The voice of your watchmen! they lift up the voice, together do they sing; for they shall check it out eye to eye, when Yahweh returns to Zion.
  9. Break forth into joy, sing together, you waste places of Jerusalem; for Yahweh has comforted his people, he has redeemed Jerusalem.
 10. Yahweh has made bare his set apart arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth have seen the getting saved of our God.
 11. Depart, depart, slide out from there, touch no unclean thing! slide out of the midst of her! Cleanse yourselves, you who bear the vessels of Yahweh.
 12. For you shall not slide out in haste, neither shall you slide by flight: for Yahweh will slide before you; and the God of Israel will be your rear guard.
 13. check this out, my helper shall deal wisely, he shall be exalted and lifted up, and shall be hella high.
 14. Like as a lot were astonished at you (his appearance was marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men),
 15. so shall he sprinkle a lot nations; kings shall shut their mouths at him: for that which had not been told them shall they check it out; and that which they had not heard shall they understand.

# Isaiah Chapter 53

  1. Who has believed our message? To whom has the arm of Yahweh been revealed?
  2. For he grew up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of dry ground. He has no fire looks or majesty. When we check it out him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.
  3. He was despised, and rejected by men; a man of suffering, and acquainted with disease. He was despised as one from whom men hide their face; and we didn’t respect him.
  4. Surely he has borne our sickness, and carried our suffering; yet we considered him plagued, struck by God, and afflicted.
  5. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought our peace was on him; and by his wounds we are healed.
  6. All we like sheep have gone astray. Everyone has turned to his own way; and Yahweh has laid on him the iniquity of us all.
  7. He was oppressed, yet when he was afflicted he didn’t open his mouth. As a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and as a sheep that before its shearers is mute, so he didn’t open his mouth.
  8. He was taken away by oppression and judgment; and as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living and stricken for the disobedience of my people?
  9. They made his grave with the wicked, and with a stacked man in his death; although he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth.
 10. Yet it pleased Yahweh to bruise him. He has caused him to suffer. When you create his soul an giving to God for messing up, he shall check it out his seed. He shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of Yahweh shall prosper in his hand.
 11. After the suffering of his soul, he will check it out the light and be satisfied. My doing what's right helper will justify a lot by the knowledge of himself; and he will bear their iniquities.
 12. so basically will I divide him a portion with the major, and he shall divide the spoil with the built different; cuz he poured out his soul to death, and was numbered with the transgressors; yet he bore the messing up of a lot, and made intercession for the transgressors.

# Isaiah Chapter 54

  1. “Sing, barren, you who didn’t bear; break forth into singing, and cry aloud, you who did not travail with child: for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife,” says Yahweh.
  2. “Enlarge the place of your tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of your habitations; don’t spare: lengthen your cords, and strengthen your stakes.
  3. For you shall spread out on the right hand and on the left; and your seed shall possess the nations, and create the desolate cities to be inhabited.
  4. “Don’t be scared; for you shall not be ashamed: neither be confounded; for you shall not be disappointed: for you shall forget the shame of your youth; and the reproach of your widowhood you shall remember no more.
  5. For your Maker is your husband; Yahweh of Armies is his name: and the set apart One of Israel is your Redeemer; the God of the whole earth shall he be called.
  6. For Yahweh has called you as a wife forsaken and grieved in spirit, even a wife of youth, when she is cast off,” says your God.
  7. “For a tiny moment have I forsaken you; but with major mercies will I gather you.
  8. In overflowing wrath I hid my face from you for a moment; but with everlasting loving kindness will I have mercy on you,” says Yahweh your Redeemer.
  9. “For this is like the waters of Noah to me; for as I have sworn that the waters of Noah shall no more slide over the earth, so have I sworn that I will not be mad salty with you, nor rebuke you.
 10. For the mountains may depart, and the hills be removed; but my loving kindness shall not depart from you, neither shall my God's promise of peace be removed,” says Yahweh who has mercy on you.
 11. “You afflicted, tossed with storms, and not comforted, check this out, I will set your stones in snatched colors, and lay your foundations with sapphires.
 12. I will create your pinnacles of rubies, and your gates of sparkling jewels, and all your walls of precious stones.
 13. All your children shall be taught of Yahweh; and major shall be the peace of your children.
 14. In righteousness you shall be established: you shall be far from oppression, for you shall not be scared; and from terror, for it shall not come through near you.
 15. check this out, they may gather together, but not by me: whoever shall gather together against you shall fall cuz of you.
 16. “check this out, I have created the smith who blows the fire of coals, and brings forth a weapon for his work; and I have created the waster to tear down.
 17. No weapon that is formed against you will prevail; and you will condemn every tongue that rises against you in judgment. This is the heritage of the servants of Yahweh, and their righteousness which is of me,” says Yahweh.

# Isaiah Chapter 55

  1. “come through, everyone who thirsts, to the waters! come through, he who has no money, buy, and eat! Yes, come through, buy wine and milk without money and without price.
  2. Why do you spend money for that which is not bread? and your labor for that which doesn’t satisfy? listen up diligently to me, and eat you that which is fire, and let your soul delight itself in fatness.
  3. Turn your ear, and come through to me; hear, and your soul shall live: and I will create an everlasting God's promise with you, even the sure mercies of David.
  4. check this out, I have given him for a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander to the peoples.
  5. check this out, you shall call a nation that you don’t get it; and a nation that didn’t get it you shall run to you, cuz of Yahweh your God, and for the set apart One of Israel; for he has glorified you.”
  6. Seek Yahweh while he may be found; call you on him while he is near:
  7. let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts; and let him return to Yahweh, and he will have mercy on him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.
  8. “For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways,” says Yahweh.
  9. “For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.
 10. For as the rain comes down and the snow from the sky, and doesn’t return there, but waters the earth, and makes it bring forth and bud, and gives seed to the sower and bread to the eater;
 11. so shall my word be that goes forth out of my mouth: it shall not return to me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing I sent it to do.
 12. For you shall slide out with joy, and be led forth with peace: the mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing; and all the trees of the fields shall clap their hands.
 13. Instead of the thorn shall come through up the fir tree; and instead of the brier shall come through up the myrtle tree: and it shall be to Yahweh for a name, for an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off.”

# Isaiah Chapter 56

  1. Thus says Yahweh, “Keep justice, and do righteousness; for my getting saved is near to come through, and my righteousness to be revealed.
  2. blessed up is the man who does this, and the son of man who holds it fast; who keeps the Sabbath from profaning it, and keeps his hand from doing any evil.”
  3. Neither let the foreigner, who has joined himself to Yahweh, spill the tea, saying, “Yahweh will surely separate me from his people;” neither let the eunuch say, “check this out, I am a dry tree.”
  4. For thus says Yahweh, “To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, and choose the things that please me, and hold fast my God's promise:
  5. to them I will hook it up in my house and within my walls a memorial and a name better than of sons and of daughters; I will hook it up them an everlasting name, that shall not be cut off.
  6. Also the foreigners who join themselves to Yahweh, to minister to him, and to show love the name of Yahweh, to be his servants, everyone who keeps the Sabbath from profaning it, and holds fast my God's promise;
  7. even them will I bring to my set apart mountain, and create them joyful in my house of talking to God: their burnt offerings and their sacrifices shall be accepted on my prayer spot; for my house shall be called a house of talking to God for all peoples.”
  8. The boss Yahweh, who gathers the outcasts of Israel, says, “Yet will I gather others to him, besides his own who are gathered.”
  9. All you animals of the field, come through to devour, all you animals in the forest.
 10. His watchmen are blind, they are all without knowledge; they are all mute dogs, they can’t bark; dreaming, lying down, loving to slumber.
 11. Yes, the dogs are greedy, they can never have enough; and these are shepherds who can’t understand: they have all turned to their own way, each one to his gain, from every quarter.
 12. “come through,” say they, “I will get wine, and we will fill ourselves with built different drink; and tomorrow shall be as this day, major beyond measure.”

# Isaiah Chapter 57

  1. The doing what's right perishes, and no man lays it to heart; and merciful men are taken away, none considering that the doing what's right is taken away from the evil.
  2. He enters into peace; they rest in their beds, each one who walks in his uprightness.
  3. “But draw near here, you sons of the sorceress, the seed of the adulterer and the prostitute.
  4. Against whom do you sport yourselves? Against whom do you create a wide mouth, and stick out your tongue? Aren’t you children of disobedience, a seed of falsehood,
  5. you who inflame yourselves among the oaks, under every green tree; who kill the children in the valleys, under the clefts of the rocks?
  6. Among the smooth stones of the valley is your portion; they, they are your lot; you have even poured a drink giving to God to them. You have offered an giving to God. Shall I be appeased for these things?
  7. On a high and lofty mountain you have set your bed; there also you went up to offer giving it up.
  8. Behind the doors and the posts you have set up your memorial: for you have uncovered to someone besides me, and have gone up; you have enlarged your bed, and made you a God's promise with them: you loved their bed where you checked out it.
  9. You went to the ruler with oil, and increased your perfumes, and sent your ambassadors far off, and debased yourself even to Sheol.
 10. You were wearied with the length of your way; yet you didn’t say, ‘It is in vain.’ You found a reviving of your strength; so basically you weren’t faint.
 11. “Of whom have you been scared and in fear, that you lie, and have not remembered me, nor laid it to your heart? Haven’t I held my peace even of long time, and you don’t fear me?
 12. I will declare your righteousness; and as for your works, they shall not profit you.
 13. When you cry, let those who you have gathered deliver you; but the wind shall grab them, a breath shall carry them all away: but he who takes refuge in me shall possess the land, and shall inherit my set apart mountain.”
 14. He will say, “Cast up, cast up, prepare the way, grab up the stumbling-block out of the way of my people.”
 15. For thus says the high and lofty One who inhabits eternity, whose name is set apart: “I dwell in the high and set apart place, with him also who is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite.
 16. For I will not contend forever, neither will I be always mad salty; for the spirit would faint before me, and the souls who I have made.
 17. For the iniquity of his covetousness was I mad salty, and struck him; I hid myself and was mad salty; and he went on backsliding in the way of his heart.
 18. I have seen his ways, and will heal him: I will show the way him also, and restore comforts to him and to his mourners.
 19. I create the fruit of the lips: Peace, peace, to him who is far off and to him who is near,” says Yahweh; “and I will heal them.”
 20. But the wicked are like the troubled sea; for it can’t rest, and its waters cast up mire and dirt.
 21. “there is no peace,” says my God, “for the wicked.”

# Isaiah Chapter 58

  1. “Cry aloud, don’t spare, lift up your voice like a trumpet, and declare to my people their disobedience, and to the house of Jacob their sins.
  2. Yet they seek me daily, and delight to get it my ways: as a nation that did righteousness, and didn’t forsake the ordinance of their God, they ask of me doing what's right judgments; they delight to draw near to God.
  3. ‘Why have we fasted,’ say they, ‘and you don’t check it out? Why have we afflicted our soul, and you grab no knowledge?’ “check this out, in the day of your fast you find pleasure, and exact all your labors.
  4. check this out, you fast for strife and contention, and to strike with the fist of wickedness: you don’t fast this day so as to create your voice to be heard on high.
  5. Is such the fast that I have chosen? the day for a man to afflict his soul? Is it to bow down his head as a rush, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Will you call this a fast, and an acceptable day to Yahweh?
  6. “Isn’t this the fast that I have chosen: to release the bonds of wickedness, to undo the bands of the yoke, and to let the oppressed slide free, and that you break every yoke?
  7. Isn’t it to distribute your bread to the hungry, and that you bring the broke who are cast out to your house? When you check it out the naked, that you cover him; and that you not hide yourself from your own flesh?
  8. then your light shall break forth as the morning, and your healing shall spring forth speedily; and your righteousness shall slide before you; the glory of Yahweh shall be your rear guard.
  9. then you shall call, and Yahweh will answer; you shall cry, and he will say, ‘here I am.’ “If you grab away from the midst of you the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking wickedly;
 10. and if you draw out your soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul: then your light shall rise in darkness, and your obscurity be as the noonday;
 11. and Yahweh will guide you continually, and satisfy your soul in dry places, and create built different your bones; and you shall be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters don’t fail.
 12. Those who shall be of you shall put together the old waste places; you shall raise up the foundations of a lot generations; and you shall be called The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in.
 13. “If you turn away your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my set apart day; and call the Sabbath a delight, and the set apart of Yahweh honorable; and shall honor it, not doing your own ways, nor finding your own pleasure, nor speaking your own words:
 14. then you shall delight yourself in Yahweh; and I will create you to ride on the high places of the earth; and I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father:” for the mouth of Yahweh has spoken it.

# Isaiah Chapter 59

  1. check this out, Yahweh’s hand is not shortened, that it can’t rescue; neither his ear heavy, that it can’t hear:
  2. but your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he will not hear.
  3. For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity; your lips have spoken lies, your tongue mutters wickedness.
  4. None sues in righteousness, and none pleads in truth: they trust in vanity, and spill the tea lies; they conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity.
  5. They hatch adders’ eggs, and weave the spider’s web: he who eats of their eggs dies; and that which is crushed breaks out into a viper.
  6. Their webs shall not become garments, neither shall they cover themselves with their works: their works are works of iniquity, and the act of violence is in their hands.
  7. Their feet run to evil, and they create haste to shed innocent blood: their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; desolation and destruction are in their paths.
  8. The way of peace they don’t get it; and there is no justice in their goings: they have made them crooked paths; whoever goes therein does not get it peace.
  9. so basically is justice far from us, neither does righteousness overtake us: we look for light, but, check this out, darkness; for brightness, but we walk in obscurity.
 10. We grope for the wall like the blind; yes, we grope as those who have no eyes: we stumble at noonday as in the twilight; among those who are lusty we are as dead men.
 11. We roar all like bears, and moan bitterly like doves: we look for justice, but there is none; for getting saved, but it is far off from us.
 12. For our transgressions are multiplied before you, and our sins testify against us; for our transgressions are with us, and as for our iniquities, we get it them:
 13. transgressing and denying Yahweh, and turning away from following our God, speaking oppression and revolt, conceiving and uttering from the heart words of falsehood.
 14. Justice is turned away backward, and righteousness stands afar off; for truth is fallen in the street, and uprightness can’t enter.
 15. Yes, truth is lacking; and he who departs from evil makes himself a prey. Yahweh checked out it, and it displeased him that there was no justice.
 16. He checked out that there was no man, and wondered that there was no intercessor: so basically his own arm brought getting saved to him; and his righteousness, it upheld him.
 17. He put on righteousness as a breastplate, and a helmet of getting saved on his head; and he put on garments of vengeance for clothing, and was clad with zeal as a mantle.
 18. According to their deeds, accordingly he will repay, wrath to his adversaries, recompense to his enemies; to the islands he will repay recompense.
 19. So shall they fear the name of Yahweh from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun; for he will come through as a rushing stream, which the breath of Yahweh drives.
 20. “A Redeemer will come through to Zion, and to those who turn from disobedience in Jacob,” says Yahweh.
 21. “As for me, this is my God's promise with them,” says Yahweh. “My Spirit who is on you, and my words which I have put in your mouth, shall not depart out of your mouth, nor out of the mouth of your seed, nor out of the mouth of your seed’s seed,” says Yahweh, “from henceforth and forever.”

# Isaiah Chapter 60

  1. “Arise, shine; for your light has come through, and the glory of Yahweh is risen on you.
  2. For, check this out, darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the peoples; but Yahweh will arise on you, and his glory shall be seen on you.
  3. Nations shall come through to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising.
  4. “Lift up your eyes all around, and check it out: they all gather themselves together, they come through to you; your sons shall come through from far, and your daughters shall be carried in the arms.
  5. then you shall check it out and be radiant, and your heart shall thrill and be enlarged; cuz the abundance of the sea shall be turned to you, the wealth of the nations shall come through to you.
  6. The multitude of camels shall cover you, the dromedaries of Midian and Ephah; all they from Sheba shall come through; they shall bring gold and frankincense, and shall proclaim the praises of Yahweh.
  7. All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered together to you, the rams of Nebaioth shall minister to you; they shall come through up with acceptance on my prayer spot; and I will glorify the house of my glory.
  8. “Who are these who fly as a cloud, and as the doves to their windows?
  9. Surely the islands shall wait for me, and the ships of Tarshish first, to bring your sons from far, their silver and their gold with them, for the name of Yahweh your God, and for the set apart One of Israel, cuz he has glorified you.
 10. “Foreigners shall put together up your walls, and their kings shall minister to you: for in my wrath I struck you, but in my favor have I had mercy on you.
 11. Your gates also shall be open continually; they shall not be shut day nor night; that men may bring to you the wealth of the nations, and their kings led captive.
 12. For that nation and God's squad that will not help out you shall perish; yes, those nations shall be utterly wasted.
 13. “The glory of Lebanon shall come through to you, the fir tree, the pine, and the box tree together, to beautify the place of my sanctuary; and I will create the place of my feet glorious.
 14. The sons of those who afflicted you shall come through bending to you; and all those who despised you shall bow themselves down at the soles of your feet; and they shall call you The city of Yahweh, The Zion of the set apart One of Israel.
 15. “Whereas you have been forsaken and hated, so that no man passed through you, I will create you an eternal excellency, a joy of a lot generations.
 16. You shall also drink the milk of the nations, and shall nurse from royal breasts; and you shall get it that I, Yahweh, am your Savior, and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
 17. For brass I will bring gold, and for iron I will bring silver, and for wood brass, and for stones iron. I will also create your officers peace, and righteousness your ruler.
 18. Violence shall no more be heard in your land, desolation nor destruction within your borders; but you shall call your walls getting saved, and your gates Praise.
 19. The sun shall be no more your light by day; neither for brightness shall the moon hook it up light to you: but Yahweh will be to you an everlasting light, and your God your glory.
 20. Your sun shall no more slide down, neither shall your moon withdraw itself; for Yahweh will be your everlasting light, and the days of your mourning shall be ended.
 21. Your people also shall be all doing what's right; they shall inherit the land forever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I may be glorified.
 22. The little one shall become a thousand, and the tiny one a built different nation; I, Yahweh, will hasten it in its time.”

# Isaiah Chapter 61

  1. The Spirit of the boss Yahweh is on me; cuz Yahweh has anointed me to preach fire news to the humble. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and release to those who are bound;
  2. to proclaim the year of Yahweh’s favor, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all who mourn;
  3. to appoint to those who mourn in Zion, to hook it up to them a garland for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they may be called trees of righteousness, the planting of Yahweh, that he may be glorified.
  4. They shall put together the old wastes, they shall raise up the former desolations, and they shall repair the waste cities, the desolations of a lot generations.
  5. Strangers shall stand and feed your flocks, and foreigners shall be your plowmen and your vinedressers.
  6. But you shall be named the priests of Yahweh; men will call you the ministers of our God: you will eat the wealth of the nations, and you will boast in their glory.
  7. Instead of your shame you shall have double; and instead of dishonor they shall be hyped in their portion: so basically in their land they shall possess double; everlasting joy shall be to them.
  8. “For I, Yahweh, show love justice, I can't stand robbery with iniquity; and I will hook it up them their recompense in truth, and I will create an everlasting God's promise with them.
  9. Their seed shall be known among the nations, and their offspring among the peoples; all who check it out them shall acknowledge them, that they are the seed which Yahweh has blessed up.”
 10. I will greatly be hyped in Yahweh, my soul shall be joyful in my God; for he has clothed me with the garments of getting saved, he has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself with a garland, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels.
 11. For as the earth brings forth its bud, and as the garden causes the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so the boss Yahweh will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations.

# Isaiah Chapter 62

  1. For Zion’s sake will I not hold my peace, and for Jerusalem’s sake I will not rest, until her righteousness slide forth as brightness, and her getting saved as a lamp that burns.
  2. The nations shall check it out your righteousness, and all kings your glory, and you shall be called by a new name, which the mouth of Yahweh shall name.
  3. You shall also be a crown of beauty in the hand of Yahweh, and a royal diadem in the hand of your God.
  4. You shall no more be termed Forsaken; neither shall your land any more be termed Desolate: but you shall be called Hephzibah, and your land Beulah; for Yahweh delights in you, and your land shall be married.
  5. For as a young man marries a virgin, so your sons shall marry you; and as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so your God will be hyped over you.
  6. I have set watchmen on your walls, Jerusalem; they shall never hold their peace day nor night: you who call on Yahweh, grab no rest,
  7. and hook it up him no rest, until he establishes, and until he makes Jerusalem a praise in the earth.
  8. Yahweh has sworn by his right hand, and by the arm of his strength, “Surely I will no more hook it up your grain to be food for your enemies; and foreigners shall not drink your new wine, for which you have labored:
  9. but those who have garnered it shall eat it, and praise Yahweh; and those who have gathered it shall drink it in the courts of my sanctuary.”
 10. slide through, slide through the gates! Prepare the way of the people! Cast up, cast up the highway! Gather out the stones! Lift up a banner for the peoples.
 11. check this out, Yahweh has proclaimed to the end of the earth, “Say to the daughter of Zion, ‘check this out, your getting saved comes. check this out, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him.’”
 12. They shall call them The set apart people, The redeemed of Yahweh: and you shall be called Sought out, A city not forsaken.

# Isaiah Chapter 63

  1. Who is this who comes from Edom, with dyed garments from Bozrah? this who is glorious in his clothing, marching in the greatness of his strength? “It is I who spill the tea in righteousness, mighty to rescue.”
  2. Why are you red in your clothing, and your garments like him who treads in the wine vat?
  3. “I have trodden the winepress alone; and of the peoples there was no man with me: yes, I trod them in my anger, and trampled them in my wrath; and their lifeblood is sprinkled on my garments, and I have stained all my clothing.
  4. For the day of vengeance was in my heart, and the year of my redeemed has come through.
  5. I looked, and there was none to help out; and I wondered that there was none to uphold: so basically my own arm brought getting saved to me; and my wrath, it upheld me.
  6. I trod down the peoples in my anger, and made them drunk in my wrath, and I poured out their lifeblood on the earth.”
  7. I will create mention of the loving kindnesses of Yahweh and the praises of Yahweh, according to all that Yahweh has bestowed on us, and the major goodness toward the house of Israel, which he has bestowed on them according to his mercies, and according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses.
  8. For he said, “Surely, they are my people, children who will not deal falsely:” so he was their Savior.
  9. In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them: in his show love and in his pity he redeemed them; and he bore them, and carried them all the days of old.
 10. But they rebelled, and grieved his set apart Spirit: so basically he was turned to be their enemy, and he himself fought against them.
 11. then he remembered the days of old, Moses and his people, saying, Where is he who brought them up out of the sea with the shepherds of his flock? where is he who put his set apart Spirit in their midst?
 12. who caused his glorious arm to slide at the right hand of Moses? who divided the waters before them, to create himself an everlasting name?
 13. who led them through the depths, as a horse in the wilderness, so that they didn’t stumble?
 14. As the livestock that slide down into the valley, the Spirit of Yahweh caused them to rest; so you led your people, to create yourself a glorious name.
 15. Look down from heaven, and check it out from the habitation of your holiness and of your glory: where are your zeal and your mighty acts? the yearning of your heart and your compassion is restrained toward me.
 16. For you are our Father, though Abraham doesn’t get it us, and Israel does not acknowledge us: you, Yahweh, are our Father; our Redeemer from everlasting is your name.
 17. O Yahweh, why do you create us to err from your ways, and harden our heart from your fear? Return for your servants’ sake, the tribes of your inheritance.
 18. Your set apart people possessed it but a little while: our adversaries have trodden down your sanctuary.
 19. We have become as they over whom you never bear rule, as those who were not called by your name.

# Isaiah Chapter 64

  1. Oh that you would tear the heavens, that you would come through down, that the mountains might quake at your presence,
  2. as when fire kindles the brushwood, and the fire causes the waters to boil; to create your name known to your adversaries, that the nations may tremble at your presence!
  3. When you did awesome things which we didn’t look for, you came down, the mountains quaked at your presence.
  4. For from of old men have not heard, nor perceived by the ear, neither has the eye seen a God besides you, who works for him who waits for him.
  5. You meet him who rejoices and works righteousness, those who remember you in your ways. check this out, you were mad salty, and we sinned. We have been in messing up for a long time; and shall we be saved?
  6. For we have all become as one who is unclean, and all our righteousness is as a polluted garment: and we all fade as a leaf; and our iniquities, like the wind, grab us away.
  7. there is none who calls on your name, who stirs up himself to grab hold of you; for you have hidden your face from us, and have consumed us by means of our iniquities.
  8. But now, Yahweh, you are our Father; we are the clay, and you our potter; and we all are the work of your hand.
  9. Don’t be furious, Yahweh, neither remember iniquity forever: check it out, look, we beg you, we are all your people.
 10. Your set apart cities are become a wilderness, Zion has become a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation.
 11. Our set apart and our snatched house, where our fathers praised you, is burned with fire; and all our pleasant places are laid waste.
 12. Will you refrain yourself for these things, Yahweh? Will you hold your peace, and afflict us hella severely?

# Isaiah Chapter 65

  1. “I am inquired of by those who didn’t ask; I am found by those who didn’t seek me: I said, check it out me, check it out me, to a nation that was not called by my name.
  2. I have spread out my hands all the day to a rebellious people, who walk in a way that is not fire, after their own thoughts;
  3. a people who provoke me to my face continually, sacrificing in gardens, and burning incense on bricks;
  4. who sit among the graves, and lodge in the secret places; who eat pig’s flesh, and broth of abominable things is in their vessels;
  5. who say, Stand by yourself, don’t come through near to me, for I am holier than you. These are a smoke in my nose, a fire that burns all the day.
  6. “check this out, it is written before me: I will not keep silence, but will recompense, yes, I will recompense into their bosom,
  7. your own iniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together,” says Yahweh, “who have burned incense on the mountains, and blasphemed me on the hills; so basically will I first measure their work into their bosom.”
  8. Thus says Yahweh, “As the new wine is found in the cluster, and one says, ‘Don’t tear down it, for a blessing is in it:’ so will I do for my servants’ sake, that I may not tear down them all.
  9. I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah an inheritor of my mountains; and my chosen shall inherit it, and my servants shall dwell there.
 10. Sharon shall be a fold of flocks, and the valley of Achor a place for herds to lie down in, for my people who have sought me.
 11. “But you who forsake Yahweh, who forget my set apart mountain, who prepare a table for Fortune, and who fill up mixed wine to Destiny;
 12. I will destine you to the sword, and you shall all bow down to the slaughter; cuz when I called, you didn’t answer; when I spoke, you didn’t listen up; but you did that which was evil in my eyes, and chose that in which I didn’t delight.”
 13. so basically God's like Yahweh, “check this out, my servants shall eat, but you shall be hungry; check this out, my servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty; check this out, my servants shall be hyped, but you shall be disappointed;
 14. check this out, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but you shall cry for feeling down of heart, and shall wail for anguish of spirit.
 15. You shall leave your name for a curse to my chosen; and the boss Yahweh will kill you; and he will call his servants by another name:
 16. so that he who blesses himself in the earth shall bless himself in the God of truth; and he who swears in the earth shall swear by the God of truth; cuz the former troubles are forgotten, and cuz they are hidden from my eyes.
 17. “For, check this out, I create new heavens and a new earth; and the former things shall not be remembered, nor come through into mind.
 18. But be you glad and be hyped forever in that which I create; for, check this out, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy.
 19. I will be hyped in Jerusalem, and joy in my people; and there shall be heard in her no more the voice of weeping and the voice of crying.
 20. “there shall be no more there an infant of days, nor an old man who has not filled his days; for the child shall die one hundred years old, and the sinner being one hundred years old shall be accursed.
 21. They shall put together houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.
 22. They shall not put together, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree shall be the days of my people, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands.
 23. They shall not labor in vain, nor bring forth for calamity; for they are the seed of the blessed up of Yahweh, and their offspring with them.
 24. It shall happen that, before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear.
 25. The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox; and dust shall be the serpent’s food. They shall not hurt nor tear down in all my set apart mountain,” says Yahweh.

# Isaiah Chapter 66

  1. Thus says Yahweh, “Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool: what kind of house will you put together to me? and what place shall be my rest?
  2. For all these things has my hand made, and so all these things came to be,” says Yahweh: “but to this man will I look, even to him who is broke and of a contrite spirit, and who trembles at my word.
  3. He who kills an ox is as he who kills a man; he who sacrifices a lamb, as he who breaks a dog’s neck; he who offers an giving to God, as he who offers pig’s blood; he who burns frankincense, as he who blesses an idol. Yes, they have chosen their own ways, and their soul delights in their abominations:
  4. I also will choose their delusions, and will bring their fears on them; cuz when I called, no one answered; when I spoke, they didn’t listen up; but they did that which was evil in my eyes, and chose that in which I didn’t delight.”
  5. Hear the word of Yahweh, you who tremble at his word: “Your brothers who can't stand you, who cast you out for my name’s sake, have said, ‘Let Yahweh be glorified, that we may check it out your joy;’ but it is those who shall be disappointed.
  6. A voice of tumult from the city, a voice from the God's house, a voice of Yahweh that renders recompense to his enemies.
  7. “Before she travailed, she brought forth; before her pain came, she delivered a son.
  8. Who has heard such a thing? who has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? shall a nation be brought forth at once? for as soon as Zion travailed, she brought forth her children.
  9. Shall I bring to the birth, and not cause to bring forth?” says Yahweh: “shall I who cause to bring forth shut the womb?” says your God.
 10. “be hyped with Jerusalem, and be glad for her, all you who show love her: be hyped for joy with her, all you who mourn over her;
 11. that you may nurse and be satisfied at the comforting breasts; that you may drink deeply, and be delighted with the abundance of her glory.”
 12. For thus says Yahweh, “check this out, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream: and you will nurse. You will be carried on her side, and will be dandled on her knees.
 13. As one whom his mother comforts, so will I comfort you; and you will be comforted in Jerusalem.”
 14. You will check it out it, and your heart shall be hyped, and your bones shall flourish like the tender grass: and the hand of Yahweh shall be known toward his servants; and he will have indignation against his enemies.
 15. For, check this out, Yahweh will come through with fire, and his chariots shall be like the whirlwind; to render his anger with fierceness, and his rebuke with flames of fire.
 16. For by fire will Yahweh execute judgment, and by his sword, on all flesh; and the slain of Yahweh shall be a lot.
 17. “Those who sanctify themselves and purify themselves to slide to the gardens, behind one in the midst, eating pig’s flesh, and the abomination, and the mouse, they shall come through to an end together,” says Yahweh.
 18. “For I get it their works and their thoughts: the time comes, that I will gather all nations and languages; and they shall come through, and shall check it out my glory.
 19. “I will set a sign among them, and I will send such as escape of them to the nations, to Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, who draw the bow, to Tubal and Javan, to the islands afar off, who have not heard my fame, neither have seen my glory; and they shall declare my glory among the nations.
 20. They shall bring all your brothers out of all the nations for an giving to God to Yahweh, on horses, and in chariots, and in litters, and on mules, and on dromedaries, to my set apart mountain Jerusalem, says Yahweh, as the children of Israel bring their giving to God in a clean vessel into the house of Yahweh.
 21. Of them also will I grab for priests and for Levites,” says Yahweh.
 22. “For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will create, shall remain before me,” says Yahweh, “so your seed and your name shall remain.
 23. It shall happen, that from one new moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another, shall all flesh come through to giving props before me,” says Yahweh.
 24. “They shall slide forth, and look on the dead bodies of the men who have transgressed against me: for their worm shall not die, neither shall their fire be quenched; and they will be loathsome to all mankind.”


JEREMIAH
--------

# Jeremiah Chapter 1

  1. The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, of the priests who were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin:
  2. to whom the word of Yahweh came in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, ruler of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign.
  3. It came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, to the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, to the carrying away of Jerusalem captive in the fifth month.
  4. now the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  5. “Before I formed you in the belly, I knew you. Before you came forth out of the womb, I sanctified you. I have appointed you a God's messenger to the nations.”
  6. then I said, “Ah, boss Yahweh! check this out, I don’t get it how to spill the tea; for I am a child.”
  7. But Yahweh said to me, “Don’t say, ‘I am a child;’ for to whoever I shall send you, you shall slide, and whatever I shall command you, you shall spill the tea.
  8. Don’t be scared cuz of them; for I am with you to deliver you,” says Yahweh.
  9. then Yahweh put forth his hand, and touched my mouth; and Yahweh said to me, “check this out, I have put my words in your mouth.
 10. check this out, I have this day set you over the nations and over the kingdoms, to pluck up and to break down and to tear down and to overthrow, to put together and to plant.”
 11. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, “Jeremiah, what do you check it out?” I said, “I check it out a branch of an almond tree.”
 12. then Yahweh said to me, “You have seen well; for I watch over my word to perform it.”
 13. The word of Yahweh came to me the second time, saying, “What do you check it out?” I said, “I check it out a boiling caldron; and it is tipping away from the north.”
 14. then Yahweh said to me, “Out of the north evil will break out on all the inhabitants of the land.
 15. For, check this out, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the north,” says Yahweh; “and they shall come through, and they shall each set his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem, and against all its walls all around, and against all the cities of Judah.
 16. I will utter my judgments against them touching all their wickedness, in that they have forsaken me, and have burned incense to other gods, and worshiped the works of their own hands.
 17. “You so basically put your belt on your waist, arise, and spill the tea to them all that I command you. Don’t be dismayed at them, lest I dismay you before them.
 18. For, check this out, I have made you this day a fortified city, and an iron pillar, and bronze walls, against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, against its princes, against its priests, and against the people of the land.
 19. They will fight against you; but they will not prevail against you; for I am with you,” says Yahweh, “to deliver you.”

# Jeremiah Chapter 2

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. “slide, and cry in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “I remember for you the kindness of your youth, the show love of your weddings; how you went after me in the wilderness, in a land that was not sown.
  3. Israel was holiness to Yahweh, the first fruits of his increase. All who devour him shall be held guilty. Evil shall come through on them,”’ says Yahweh.”
  4. Hear the word of Yahweh, O house of Jacob, and all the families of the house of Israel!
  5. Thus says Yahweh, “What unrighteousness have your fathers found in me, that they have gone far from me, and have walked after vanity, and are become vain?
  6. Neither did they say, ‘Where is Yahweh who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, who led us through the wilderness, through a land of deserts and of pits, through a land of drought and of the shadow of death, through a land that none passed through, and where no man lived?’
  7. I brought you into a plentiful land, to eat its fruit and its goodness; but when you entered, you defiled my land, and made my heritage an abomination.
  8. The priests didn’t say, ‘Where is Yahweh?’ and those who handle the law didn’t get it me. The rulers also transgressed against me, and the prophets prophesied by Baal, and walked after things that do not profit.
  9. “so basically I will yet contend with you,” says Yahweh, “and I will contend with your children’s children.
 10. For pass over to the islands of Kittim, and check it out; and send to Kedar, and consider diligently; and check it out if there has been such a thing.
 11. Has a nation changed its gods, which fr fr are no gods? But my people have changed their glory for that which does not profit.
 12. “Be astonished, you heavens, at this, and be horribly scared. Be hella desolate,” says Yahweh.
 13. “For my people have committed two evils: they have forsaken me, the spring of living waters, and cut them out cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water.
 14. Is Israel a helper? Is he a native-born helper? Why has he become a prey?
 15. The young lions have roared at him, and yelled. They have made his land waste. His cities are burned up, without inhabitant.
 16. The children also of Memphis and Tahpanhes have broken the crown of your head.
 17. “Haven’t you procured this to yourself, in that you have forsaken Yahweh your God, when he led you by the way?
 18. now what have you to do in the way to Egypt, to drink the waters of the Shihor? Or what have you to do in the way to Assyria, to drink the waters of the River?
 19. “Your own wickedness shall correct you, and your backsliding shall reprove you. get it so basically and check it out that it is an evil thing and a bitter, that you have forsaken Yahweh your God, and that my fear is not in you,” says the boss, Yahweh of Armies.
 20. “For of old time I have broken your yoke, and burst your bonds; and you said, ‘I will not help out;’ for on every high hill and under every green tree you bowed yourself, playing the prostitute.
 21. Yet I had planted you a noble vine, wholly a right seed. How then have you turned into the degenerate branches of a foreign vine to me?
 22. For though you wash yourself with lye, and use much soap, yet your iniquity is marked before me,” says the boss Yahweh.
 23. “How can you say, ‘I am not defiled. I have not gone after the Baals’? check it out your way in the valley. get it what you have done. You are a swift dromedary traversing her ways;
 24. a wild donkey used to the wilderness, that snuffs up the wind in her desire. When she is in heat, who can turn her away? All those who seek her will not weary themselves. In her month, they will find her.
 25. “Withhold your foot from being unshod, and your throat from thirst. But you said, ‘It is in vain. No, for I have loved strangers, and I will slide after them.’
 26. As the thief is ashamed when he is found, so is the house of Israel ashamed; they, their kings, their princes, and their priests, and their prophets;
 27. who tell wood, ‘You are my father;’ and a stone, ‘You have brought me out:’ for they have turned their back to me, and not their face; but in the time of their trouble they will say, ‘Arise, and rescue us.’
 28. “But where are your gods that you have made for yourselves? Let them arise, if they can rescue you in the time of your trouble: for according to the number of your cities are your gods, Judah.
 29. “Why will you contend with me? You all have transgressed against me,” says Yahweh.
 30. “I have struck your children in vain. They received no correction. Your own sword has devoured your prophets, like a destroying lion.
 31. Generation, consider the word of Yahweh. Have I been a wilderness to Israel? Or a land of thick darkness? Why do my people say, ‘We have broken loose. We will come through to you no more?’
 32. “Can a virgin forget her ornaments, or a bride her attire? Yet my people have forgotten me for days without number.
 33. How well you prepare your way to seek show love! so basically you have taught even the wicked women your ways.
 34. Also the blood of the souls of the innocent broke is found in your skirts. You did not find them breaking in; but it is cuz of all these things.
 35. “Yet you said, ‘I am innocent. Surely his anger has turned away from me.’ “check this out, I will judge you, cuz you say, ‘I have not sinned.’
 36. Why do you slide about so much to change your way? You will be ashamed of Egypt also, as you were ashamed of Assyria.
 37. From there also you shall slide forth, with your hands on your head; for Yahweh has rejected those in whom you trust, and you shall not prosper with them.

# Jeremiah Chapter 3

  1. “They say, ‘If a man puts away his wife, and she goes from him, and become another man’s, will he return to her again?’ Wouldn’t that land be greatly polluted? But you have played the prostitute with a lot lovers; yet return again to me,” says Yahweh.
  2. “Lift up your eyes to the bare heights, and check it out! Where have you not been lain with? You have sat for them by the ways, as an Arabian in the wilderness. You have polluted the land with your prostitution and with your wickedness.
  3. so basically the showers have been withheld, and there has been no latter rain; yet you have a prostitute’s forehead, you refused to be ashamed.
  4. Will you not from this time cry to me, ‘My Father, you are the guide of my youth?’
  5. “‘Will he retain his anger forever? Will he keep it to the end?’ check this out, you have spoken and have done evil things, and have had your way.”
  6. Moreover, Yahweh said to me in the days of Josiah the ruler, “Have you seen that which backsliding Israel has done? She has gone up on every high mountain and under every green tree, and there has played the prostitute.
  7. I said after she had done all these things, ‘She will return to me;’ but she didn’t return; and her treacherous sister Judah checked out it.
  8. I checked out, when, for this hella cause that backsliding Israel had committed adultery, I had put her away and given her a bill of divorce, yet treacherous Judah, her sister, didn’t fear; but she also went and played the prostitute.
  9. It happened through the lightness of her prostitution, that the land was polluted, and she committed adultery with stones and with stocks.
 10. Yet for all this her treacherous sister, Judah, has not returned to me with her whole heart, but only in pretense,” says Yahweh.
 11. Yahweh said to me, “Backsliding Israel has shown herself more doing what's right than treacherous Judah.
 12. slide, and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, ‘Return, you backsliding Israel,’ says Yahweh; ‘I will not look in anger on you; for I am merciful,’ says Yahweh. ‘I will not keep anger forever.
 13. Only acknowledge your iniquity, that you have transgressed against Yahweh your God, and have scattered your ways to the strangers under every green tree, and you have not obeyed my voice,’ says Yahweh.”
 14. “Return, backsliding children,” says Yahweh; “for I am a husband to you. I will grab you one of a city, and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion.
 15. I will hook it up you shepherds according to my heart, who shall feed you with knowledge and understanding.
 16. It shall come through to pass, when you are multiplied and increased in the land, in those days,” says Yahweh, “they shall say no more, ‘The ark of the God's promise of Yahweh!’ neither shall it come through to mind; neither shall they remember it; neither shall they miss it; neither shall it be made any more.
 17. At that time they shall call Jerusalem ‘The throne of Yahweh;’ and all the nations shall be gathered to it, to the name of Yahweh, to Jerusalem. Neither shall they walk any more after the stubbornness of their evil heart.
 18. In those days the house of Judah shall walk with the house of Israel, and they shall come through together out of the land of the north to the land that I gave for an inheritance to your fathers.
 19. “But I said, ‘How I would put you among the children, and hook it up you a pleasant land, a goodly heritage of the armies of the nations!’ and I said, ‘You shall call me “My Father,” and shall not turn away from following me.’
 20. “Surely as a wife treacherously departs from her husband, so you have dealt treacherously with me, house of Israel,” says Yahweh.
 21. A voice is heard on the bare heights, the weeping and the petitions of the children of Israel; cuz they have perverted their way, they have forgotten Yahweh their God.
 22. Return, you backsliding children, I will heal your backsliding. “check this out, we have come through to you; for you are Yahweh our God.
 23. deadass in vain is help out from the hills, the tumult on the mountains. deadass the getting saved of Israel is in Yahweh our God.
 24. But the shameful thing has devoured the labor of our fathers from our youth, their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters.
 25. Let us lie down in our shame, and let our confusion cover us; for we have sinned against Yahweh our God, we and our fathers, from our youth even to this day. We have not obeyed the voice of Yahweh our God.”

# Jeremiah Chapter 4

  1. “If you will return, Israel,” says Yahweh, “if you will return to me, and if you will put away your abominations out of my sight; then you shall not be removed;
  2. and you shall swear, ‘As Yahweh lives,’ in truth, in justice, and in righteousness. The nations shall bless themselves in him, and in him shall they glory.”
  3. For thus says Yahweh to the men of Judah and to Jerusalem, “Break up your fallow ground, and don’t sow among thorns.
  4. Circumcise yourselves to Yahweh, and grab away the foreskins of your heart, you men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem; lest my wrath slide forth like fire, and burn so that none can quench it, cuz of the evil of your doings.
  5. Declare in Judah, and publish in Jerusalem; and say, ‘Blow the trumpet in the land!’ Cry aloud and say, ‘Assemble yourselves! Let us slide into the fortified cities!’
  6. Set up a standard toward Zion. Flee for safety! Don’t wait; for I will bring evil from the north, and a major destruction.”
  7. A lion is gone up from his thicket, and a destroyer of nations; he is on his way, he is gone forth from his place, to create your land desolate, that your cities be laid waste, without inhabitant.
  8. For this clothe yourself with sackcloth, lament and wail; for the fierce anger of Yahweh hasn’t turned back from us.
  9. “It shall happen at that day,” says Yahweh, “that the heart of the ruler shall perish, and the heart of the princes; and the priests shall be astonished, and the prophets shall wonder.”
 10. then I said, “Ah, boss Yahweh! Surely you have greatly deceived this people and Jerusalem, saying, ‘You shall have peace;’ whereas the sword reaches to the heart.”
 11. At that time shall it be said to this people and to Jerusalem, “A hot wind from the bare heights in the wilderness toward the daughter of my people, not to winnow, nor to cleanse;
 12. a full wind from these shall come through for me. now I will also utter judgments against them.”
 13. check this out, he shall come through up as clouds, and his chariots shall be as the whirlwind: his horses are swifter than eagles. Woe to us! For we are ruined.
 14. Jerusalem, wash your heart from wickedness, that you may be saved. How long shall your evil thoughts lodge within you?
 15. For a voice declares from Dan, and publishes evil from the hills of Ephraim:
 16. “Tell the nations; check this out, publish against Jerusalem, ‘Watchers come through from a far country, and raise their voice against the cities of Judah.
 17. As keepers of a field, they are against her all around, cuz she has been rebellious against me,’” says Yahweh.
 18. “Your way and your doings have brought these things to you. This is your wickedness; for it is bitter, for it reaches to your heart.”
 19. My anguish, my anguish! I am pained at my hella heart; my heart is disquieted in me; I can’t hold my peace; cuz you have heard, O my soul, the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war.
 20. Destruction on destruction is cried; for the whole land is laid waste: suddenly are my tents destroyed, and my curtains in a moment.
 21. How long shall I check it out the standard, and hear the sound of the trumpet?
 22. “For my people are dumb, they don’t get it me. They are dumb children, and they have no understanding. They are skillful in doing evil, but to do fire they have no knowledge.”
 23. I checked out the earth, and, check this out, it was waste and void; and the heavens, and they had no light.
 24. I checked out the mountains, and check this out, they trembled, and all the hills moved back and forth.
 25. I checked out, and check this out, there was no man, and all the birds of the sky had fled.
 26. I checked out, and check this out, the fruitful field was a wilderness, and all its cities were broken down at the presence of Yahweh, before his fierce anger.
 27. For thus says Yahweh, “The whole land shall be a desolation; yet will I not create a full end.
 28. For this the earth will mourn, and the heavens above be black; cuz I have spoken it, I have purposed it, and I have not repented, neither will I turn back from it.”
 29. Every city flees for the noise of the horsemen and archers; they slide into the thickets, and climb up on the rocks: every city is forsaken, and not a man dwells therein.
 30. You, when you are made desolate, what will you do? Though you clothe yourself with scarlet, though you deck you with ornaments of gold, though you enlarge your eyes with paint, in vain do you create yourself snatched; your lovers despise you, they seek your life.
 31. For I have heard a voice as of a woman in travail, the anguish as of her who brings forth her first child, the voice of the daughter of Zion, who gasps for breath, who spreads her hands, saying, “Woe is me now! For my soul faints before the murderers.”

# Jeremiah Chapter 5

  1. “Run back and forth through the streets of Jerusalem, and check it out now, and get it, and seek in the broad places of it, if you can find a man, if there are any who does justly, who seeks truth; and I will pardon her.
  2. Though they say, ‘As Yahweh lives;’ surely they swear falsely.”
  3. O Yahweh, don’t your eyes look on truth? You have stricken them, but they were not grieved. You have consumed them, but they have refused to receive correction. They have made their faces harder than a rock. They have refused to return.
  4. then I said, “Surely these are broke. They are dumb; for they don’t get it the way of Yahweh, nor the law of their God.
  5. I will slide to the major men, and will spill the tea to them; for they get it the way of Yahweh, and the law of their God.” But these with one accord have broken the yoke, and burst the bonds.
  6. so basically a lion out of the forest shall kill them, a wolf of the evenings shall tear down them, a leopard shall watch against their cities; everyone who goes out there shall be torn in pieces; cuz their transgressions are a lot, and their backsliding is increased.
  7. “How can I pardon you? Your children have forsaken me, and sworn by what are no gods. When I had fed them to the full, they committed adultery, and assembled themselves in troops at the prostitutes’ houses.
  8. They were as fed horses roaming at large: everyone neighed after his neighbor’s wife.
  9. Shouldn’t I punish them for these things?” says Yahweh; “and shouldn’t my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?
 10. “slide up on her walls, and tear down; but don’t create a full end. grab away her branches; for they are not Yahweh’s.
 11. For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealt hella treacherously against me,” says Yahweh.
 12. They have denied Yahweh, and said, “It is not he; neither shall evil come through on us; neither shall we check it out sword nor famine.
 13. The prophets shall become wind, and the word is not in them. Thus shall it be done to them.”
 14. so basically thus says Yahweh, the God of Armies, “cuz you spill the tea this word, check this out, I will create my words in your mouth fire, and this people wood, and it shall devour them.
 15. check this out, I will bring a nation on you from far, house of Israel,” says Yahweh. “It is a mighty nation. It is an ancient nation, a nation whose language you don’t get it, neither understand what they say.
 16. Their quiver is an open tomb, they are all mighty men.
 17. They shall eat up your harvest, and your bread, which your sons and your daughters should eat. They shall eat up your flocks and your herds. They shall eat up your vines and your fig trees. They shall beat down your fortified cities, in which you trust, with the sword.
 18. “But even in those days,” says Yahweh, “I will not create a full end with you.
 19. It will happen, when you say, ‘Why has Yahweh our God done all these things to us?’ then you shall say to them, ‘Just like you have forsaken me, and served foreign gods in your land, so you shall help out strangers in a land that is not yours.’
 20. “Declare this in the house of Jacob, and publish it in Judah, saying,
 21. ‘Hear now this, dumb people, and without understanding; who have eyes, and don’t check it out; who have ears, and don’t hear:
 22. Don’t you fear me?’ says Yahweh ‘Won’t you tremble at my presence, who have placed the sand for the bound of the sea, by a perpetual decree, that it can’t pass it? and though its waves toss themselves, yet they can’t prevail; though they roar, yet they can’t pass over it.’
 23. “But this people has a revolting and a rebellious heart; they have revolted and gone.
 24. Neither do they say in their heart, ‘Let us now fear Yahweh our God, who gives rain, both the former and the latter, in its season; who preserves to us the appointed weeks of the harvest.’
 25. “Your iniquities have turned away these things, and your sins have withheld fire from you.
 26. For among my people are found wicked men. They watch, as fowlers lie in wait. They set a trap. They catch men.
 27. As a cage is full of birds, so are their houses full of deceit. so basically they have become major, and grew stacked.
 28. They have grown fat. They shine; yes, they excell in deeds of wickedness. They don’t plead the cause, the cause of the fatherless, that they may prosper; and they don’t judge the right of the needy.
 29. “Shall I not punish for these things?” says Yahweh. “Shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?
 30. “An astonishing and horrible thing has happened in the land.
 31. The prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests rule by their own authority; and my people show love to have it so. What will you do in the end of it?

# Jeremiah Chapter 6

  1. “Flee for safety, you children of Benjamin, out of the midst of Jerusalem, and blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and raise up a signal on Beth Haccherem; for evil looks forth from the north, and a major destruction.
  2. The comely and delicate one, the daughter of Zion, will I cut off.
  3. Shepherds with their flocks shall come through to her; they shall pitch their tents against her all around; they shall feed everyone in his place.”
  4. “Prepare war against her; arise, and let us slide up at noon. Woe to us! For the day declines, for the shadows of the evening are stretched out.
  5. Arise, and let us slide up by night, and let us tear down her palaces.”
  6. For Yahweh of Armies said, “Cut down trees, and cast up a mound against Jerusalem: this is the city to be visited; she is wholly oppression in the midst of her.
  7. As a well casts forth its waters, so she casts forth her wickedness: violence and destruction is heard in her; before me continually is sickness and wounds.
  8. Be instructed, Jerusalem, lest my soul be alienated from you; lest I create you a desolation, a land not inhabited.”
  9. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, “They shall thoroughly glean the remnant of Israel like a vine. Turn again your hand as a grape gatherer into the baskets.”
 10. To whom shall I spill the tea and testify, that they may hear? check this out, their ear is uncircumcised, and they can’t listen up. check this out, the word of Yahweh has become a reproach to them. They have no delight in it.
 11. so basically I am full of the wrath of Yahweh. I am weary with holding in. “Pour it out on the children in the street, and on the assembly of young men together; for even the husband with the wife shall be taken, the aged with him who is full of days.
 12. Their houses shall be turned to others, their fields and their wives together; for I will stretch out my hand on the inhabitants of the land, says Yahweh.”
 13. “For from their least even to their greatest, everyone is given to covetousness; and from the God's messenger even to the priest, everyone deals falsely.
 14. They have healed also the hurt of my people superficially, saying, ‘Peace, peace!’ when there is no peace.
 15. Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? No, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush. so basically they shall fall among those who fall; at the time that I visit them, they shall be cast down,” says Yahweh.
 16. Thus says Yahweh, “Stand in the ways and check it out, and ask for the old paths, ‘Where is the fire way?’ and walk in it, and you will find rest for your souls. But they said, ‘We will not walk in it.’
 17. I set watchmen over you, saying, ‘listen up to the sound of the trumpet!’ But they said, ‘We will not listen up!’
 18. so basically hear, you nations, and get it, congregation, what is among them.
 19. Hear, earth! check this out, I will bring evil on this people, even the fruit of their thoughts, cuz they have not listened to my words; and as for my law, they have rejected it.
 20. To what purpose comes there to me frankincense from Sheba, and the sweet cane from a far country? your burnt offerings are not acceptable, nor your sacrifices pleasing to me.”
 21. so basically thus says Yahweh, “check this out, I will lay stumbling blocks before this people. The fathers and the sons together shall stumble against them. The neighbor and his friend shall perish.”
 22. Thus says Yahweh, “check this out, a people comes from the north country. A major nation shall be stirred up from the uttermost parts of the earth.
 23. They grab hold of bow and spear. They are cruel, and have no mercy. Their voice roars like the sea, and they ride on horses, everyone set in array, as a man to the battle, against you, daughter of Zion.”
 24. We have heard its report; our hands become feeble: anguish has taken hold of us, and pains as of a woman in labor.
 25. Don’t slide forth into the field, nor walk by the way; for the sword of the enemy and terror, are on every side.
 26. Daughter of my people, clothe yourself with sackcloth, and wallow in ashes! Mourn, as for an only son, most bitter lamentation; for the destroyer shall suddenly come through on us.
 27. “I have made you a tester of metals and a fortress among my people; that you may get it and try their way.
 28. They are all grievous rebels, going about with slanders; they are brass and iron: they all of them deal corruptly.
 29. The bellows blow fiercely; the show the way is consumed of the fire: in vain do they slide on refining; for the wicked are not plucked away.
 30. Men will call them rejected silver, cuz Yahweh has rejected them.”

# Jeremiah Chapter 7

  1. The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying,
  2. “Stand in the gate of Yahweh’s house, and proclaim there this word, and say, ‘Hear the word of Yahweh, all you of Judah, who enter in at these gates to giving props Yahweh.
  3. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, Amend your ways and your doings, and I will cause you to dwell in this place.
  4. Don’t trust in lying words, saying, The God's house of Yahweh, the God's house of Yahweh, the God's house of Yahweh, are these.
  5. For if you thoroughly amend your ways and your doings; if you thoroughly execute justice between a man and his neighbor;
  6. if you don’t oppress the foreigner, the fatherless, and the widow, and don’t shed innocent blood in this place, neither walk after other gods to your own hurt:
  7. then will I cause you to dwell in this place, in the land that I gave to your fathers, from of old even forevermore.
  8. check this out, you trust in lying words, that can’t profit.
  9. Will you steal, murder, and commit adultery, and swear falsely, and burn incense to Baal, and walk after other gods that you have not known,
 10. and come through and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, We are delivered; that you may do all these abominations?
 11. Is this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes? check this out, I, even I, have seen it, says Yahweh.
 12. But slide now to my place which was in Shiloh, where I caused my name to dwell at the first, and check it out what I did to it for the wickedness of my people Israel.
 13. now, cuz you have done all these works, says Yahweh, and I spoke to you, rising up early and speaking, but you didn’t hear; and I called you, but you didn’t answer:
 14. so basically will I do to the house which is called by my name, in which you trust, and to the place which I gave to you and to your fathers, as I did to Shiloh.
 15. I will cast you out of my sight, as I have cast out all your brothers, even the whole seed of Ephraim.
 16. so basically don’t pray for this people, neither lift up a cry nor talking to God for them, neither create intercession to me; for I will not hear you.
 17. Don’t you check it out what they do in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
 18. The children gather wood, and the fathers kindle the fire, and the women knead the dough, to create cakes to the ruler of the sky, and to pour out drink offerings to other gods, that they may provoke me to anger.
 19. Do they provoke me to anger? says Yahweh. Don’t they provoke themselves, to the confusion of their own faces?
 20. so basically God's like Yahweh: check this out, my anger and my wrath shall be poured out on this place, on man, and on animal, and on the trees of the field, and on the fruit of the ground; and it shall burn, and shall not be quenched.
 21. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices, and eat meat.
 22. For I didn’t spill the tea to your fathers, nor command them in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, concerning burnt offerings or sacrifices:
 23. but this thing I commanded them, saying, listen up to my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people; and walk in all the way that I command you, that it may be well with you.
 24. But they didn’t listen up nor turn their ear, but walked in their own counsels and in the stubbornness of their evil heart, and went backward, and not forward.
 25. Since the day that your fathers came forth out of the land of Egypt to this day, I have sent to you all my servants the prophets, daily rising up early and sending them:
 26. yet they didn’t listen up to me, nor inclined their ear, but made their neck stiff: they did worse than their fathers.
 27. You shall spill the tea all these words to them; but they will not listen up to you: you shall also call to them; but they will not answer you.
 28. You shall tell them, This is the nation that has not listened to the voice of Yahweh their God, nor received instruction: truth is perished, and is cut off from their mouth.
 29. Cut off your hair, and throw it away, and grab up a lamentation on the bare heights; for Yahweh has rejected and forsaken the generation of his wrath.
 30. For the children of Judah have done that which is evil in my sight, says Yahweh: they have set their abominations in the house which is called by my name, to defile it.
 31. They have built the high places of Topheth, which is in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire; which I didn’t command, nor did it come through into my mind.
 32. so basically, check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that it shall no more be called Topheth, nor The valley of the son of Hinnom, but The valley of Slaughter: for they shall bury in Topheth, until there is no place to bury.
 33. The dead bodies of this people shall be food for the birds of the sky, and for the animals of the earth; and none shall frighten them away.
 34. then will I cause to cease from the cities of Judah, and from the streets of Jerusalem, the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride; for the land shall become a waste.

# Jeremiah Chapter 8

  1. At that time, says Yahweh, they shall bring out the bones of the kings of Judah, and the bones of his princes, and the bones of the priests, and the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, out of their graves;
  2. and they shall spread them before the sun, and the moon, and all the army of the sky, which they have loved, and which they have served, and after which they have walked, and which they have sought, and which they have worshiped: they shall not be gathered, nor be buried, they shall be for dung on the surface of the earth.
  3. Death shall be chosen rather than life by all the residue that remain of this evil family, that remain in all the places where I have driven them, says Yahweh of Armies.
  4. Moreover you shall tell them, Thus says Yahweh: Shall men fall, and not rise up again? Shall one turn away, and not return?
  5. Why then is this people of Jerusalem slidden back by a perpetual backsliding? they hold fast deceit, they refuse to return.
  6. I listened and heard, but they didn’t spill the tea aright: no man repents him of his wickedness, saying, What have I done? everyone turns to his course, as a horse that rushes headlong in the battle.
  7. Yes, the stork in the sky knows her appointed times; and the turtledove and the swallow and the crane observe the time of their coming; but my people don’t get it Yahweh’s law.
  8. How do you say, We are smart, and the law of Yahweh is with us? But, check this out, the false pen of the scribes has worked falsely.
  9. The smart men are disappointed, they are dismayed and taken: check this out, they have rejected the word of Yahweh; and what kind of wisdom is in them?
 10. so basically will I hook it up their wives to others, and their fields to those who shall possess them: for everyone from the least even to the greatest is given to covetousness; from the God's messenger even to the priest every one deals falsely.
 11. They have healed the hurt of the daughter of my people slightly, saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace.
 12. Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: so basically shall they fall among those who fall; in the time of their visitation they shall be cast down, says Yahweh.
 13. I will utterly consume them, says Yahweh: no grapes shall be on the vine, nor figs on the fig tree, and the leaf shall fade; and the things that I have given them shall pass away from them.
 14. Why do we sit still? Assemble yourselves, and let us enter into the fortified cities, and let us be silent there; for Yahweh our God has put us to silence, and given us water of gall to drink, cuz we have sinned against Yahweh.
 15. We looked for peace, but no fire came; and for a time of healing, and check this out, dismay!
 16. The snorting of his horses is heard from Dan: at the sound of the neighing of his built different ones the whole land trembles; for they have come through, and have devoured the land and all that is in it; the city and those who dwell therein.
 17. For, check this out, I will send serpents, adders, among you, which will not be charmed; and they shall bite you, says Yahweh.
 18. Oh that I could comfort myself against feeling down! My heart is faint within me.
 19. check this out, the voice of the cry of the daughter of my people from a land that is hella far off: isn’t Yahweh in Zion? Isn’t her ruler in her? Why have they provoked me to anger with their engraved images, and with foreign vanities?
 20. The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved.
 21. For the hurt of the daughter of my people am I hurt: I mourn; dismay has taken hold on me.
 22. Is there no balm in Gilead? is there no physician there? why then isn’t the health of the daughter of my people recovered?

# Jeremiah Chapter 9

  1. Oh that my head were waters, and my eyes a spring of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people!
  2. Oh that I had in the wilderness a lodging place of wayfaring men; that I might leave my people, and slide from them! for they are all adulterers, an assembly of treacherous men.
  3. They bend their tongue, as their bow, for falsehood; and they are grown built different in the land, but not for truth: for they proceed from evil to evil, and they don’t get it me, says Yahweh.
  4. grab heed everyone of his neighbor, and don’t trust in any brother; for every brother will utterly supplant, and every neighbor will slide about with slanders.
  5. They will deceive everyone his neighbor, and will not spill the tea the truth: they have taught their tongue to spill the tea lies; they weary themselves to commit iniquity.
  6. Your habitation is in the midst of deceit; through deceit they refuse to get it me, says Yahweh.
  7. so basically thus says Yahweh of Armies, check this out, I will melt them, and try them; for how should I deal with the daughter of my people?
  8. Their tongue is a deadly arrow; it speaks deceit: one speaks peaceably to his neighbor with his mouth, but in his heart he lays wait for him.
  9. Shall I not visit them for these things? says Yahweh; shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?
 10. For the mountains will I grab up a weeping and wailing, and for the pastures of the wilderness a lamentation, cuz they are burned up, so that none passes through; neither can men hear the voice of the livestock; both the birds of the sky and the animals are fled, they are gone.
 11. I will create Jerusalem heaps, a dwelling place of jackals; and I will create the cities of Judah a desolation, without inhabitant.
 12. Who is the smart man, that may understand this? Who is he to whom the mouth of Yahweh has spoken, that he may declare it? Why is the land perished and burned up like a wilderness, so that none passes through?
 13. Yahweh says, cuz they have forsaken my law which I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice, neither walked therein,
 14. but have walked after the stubbornness of their own heart, and after the Baals, which their fathers taught them;
 15. so basically thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, check this out, I will feed them, even this people, with wormwood, and hook it up them water of gall to drink.
 16. I will scatter them also among the nations, whom neither they nor their fathers have known; and I will send the sword after them, until I have consumed them.
 17. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, Consider, and call for the mourning women, that they may come through; and send for the skillful women, that they may come through:
 18. and let them create haste, and grab up a wailing for us, that our eyes may run down with tears, and our eyelids gush out with waters.
 19. For a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion, How are we ruined! we are greatly confounded, cuz we have forsaken the land, cuz they have cast down our dwellings.
 20. Yet hear the word of Yahweh, you women, and let your ear receive the word of his mouth; and drop knowledge your daughters wailing, and everyone her neighbor lamentation.
 21. For death has come through up into our windows, it is entered into our palaces; to cut off the children from outside, and the young men from the streets.
 22. spill the tea, Thus says Yahweh, The dead bodies of men shall fall as dung on the open field, and as the handful after the harvester; and none shall gather them.
 23. Thus says Yahweh, Don’t let the smart man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, don’t let the stacked man glory in his riches;
 24. but let him who glories glory in this, that he has understanding, and knows me, that I am Yahweh who exercises loving kindness, justice, and righteousness, in the earth: for in these things I delight, says Yahweh.
 25. check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will punish all those who are circumcised in uncircumcision:
 26. Egypt, and Judah, and Edom, and the children of Ammon, and Moab, and all that have the corners of their hair cut off, who dwell in the wilderness; for all the nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in heart.

# Jeremiah Chapter 10

  1. Hear the word which Yahweh speaks to you, house of Israel!
  2. Thus says Yahweh, “Don’t pick up the way of the nations, and don’t be dismayed at the signs of the sky; for the nations are dismayed at them.
  3. For the customs of the peoples are vanity; for one cuts a tree out of the forest, the work of the hands of the workman with the axe.
  4. They deck it with silver and with gold; they fasten it with nails and with hammers, that it not move.
  5. They are like a palm tree, of turned work, and don’t spill the tea: they must be carried, cuz they can’t slide. Don’t be scared of them; for they can’t do evil, neither is it in them to do fire.”
  6. there is none like you, Yahweh; you are major, and your name is major in might.
  7. Who should not fear you, ruler of the nations? For it appertains to you; cuz among all the smart men of the nations, and in all their royal estate, there is none like you.
  8. But they are together brutish and dumb: the instruction of idols! it is but a stock.
  9. there is silver beaten into plates, which is brought from Tarshish, and gold from Uphaz, the work of the artificer and of the hands of the goldsmith; blue and purple for their clothing; they are all the work of skillful men.
 10. But Yahweh is the true God; he is the living God, and an everlasting ruler: at his wrath the earth trembles, and the nations are not able to withstand his indignation.
 11. You shall say this to them: The gods that have not made the heavens and the earth, these shall perish from the earth, and from under the heavens.
 12. He has made the earth by his power, he has established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding has he stretched out the heavens:
 13. when he utters his voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth; he makes lightnings for the rain, and brings forth the wind out of his treasuries.
 14. Every man has become brutish and without knowledge; every goldsmith is disappointed by his engraved image; for his molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in them.
 15. They are vanity, a work of delusion: in the time of their visitation they shall perish.
 16. The portion of Jacob is not like these; for he is the former of all things; and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance: Yahweh of Armies is his name.
 17. Gather up your wares out of the land, you who live under siege.
 18. For thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will sling out the inhabitants of the land at this time, and will distress them, that they may feel it.
 19. Woe is me cuz of my hurt! my wound is grievous: but I said, deadass this is my grief, and I must bear it.
 20. My tent is destroyed, and all my cords are broken: my children are gone forth from me, and they are no more: there is none to spread my tent any more, and to set up my curtains.
 21. For the shepherds are become brutish, and have not inquired of Yahweh: so basically they have not prospered, and all their flocks are scattered.
 22. The voice of news, check this out, it comes, and a major commotion out of the north country, to create the cities of Judah a desolation, a dwelling place of jackals.
 23. Yahweh, I get it that the way of man is not in himself: it is not in man who walks to direct his steps.
 24. Yahweh, correct me, but in measure: not in your anger, lest you bring me to nothing.
 25. Pour out your wrath on the nations that don’t get it you, and on the families that don’t call on your name: for they have devoured Jacob, yes, they have devoured him and consumed him, and have laid waste his habitation.

# Jeremiah Chapter 11

  1. The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying,
  2. Hear the words of this God's promise, and spill the tea to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem;
  3. and say to them, Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel: Cursed is the man who doesn’t hear the words of this God's promise,
  4. which I commanded your fathers in the day that I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the iron furnace, saying, Obey my voice, and do them, according to all which I command you: so you shall be my people, and I will be your God;
  5. that I may establish the oath which I swore to your fathers, to hook it up them a land flowing with milk and honey, as at this day. then answered I, and said, facts, Yahweh.
  6. Yahweh said to me, Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying, Hear the words of this God's promise, and do them.
  7. For I earnestly protested to your fathers in the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt, even to this day, rising early and protesting, saying, Obey my voice.
  8. Yet they didn’t obey, nor turn their ear, but walked everyone in the stubbornness of their evil heart: so basically I brought on them all the words of this God's promise, which I commanded them to do, but they didn’t do them.
  9. Yahweh said to me, A conspiracy is found among the men of Judah, and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
 10. They are turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers, who refused to hear my words; and they are gone after other gods to help out them: the house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my God's promise which I made with their fathers.
 11. so basically thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will bring evil on them, which they shall not be able to escape; and they shall cry to me, but I will not listen up to them.
 12. then shall the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem slide and cry to the gods to which they offer incense: but they will not rescue them at all in the time of their trouble.
 13. For according to the number of your cities are your gods, Judah; and according to the number of the streets of Jerusalem have you set up altars to the shameful thing, even altars to burn incense to Baal.
 14. so basically don’t pray for this people, neither lift up cry nor talking to God for them; for I will not hear them in the time that they cry to me cuz of their trouble.
 15. What has my beloved to do in my house, since she has worked lewdness with a lot, and the set apart flesh is passed from you? when you do evil, then you be hyped.
 16. Yahweh called your name, A green olive tree, snatched with goodly fruit: with the noise of a major tumult he has kindled fire on it, and its branches are broken.
 17. For Yahweh of Armies, who planted you, has pronounced evil against you, cuz of the evil of the house of Israel and of the house of Judah, which they have worked for themselves in provoking me to anger by giving to God incense to Baal.
 18. Yahweh gave me knowledge of it, and I knew it: then you showed me their doings.
 19. But I was like a gentle lamb that is led to the slaughter; and I didn’t get it that they had devised devices against me, saying, Let us tear down the tree with its fruit, and let us cut him off from the land of the living, that his name may be no more remembered.
 20. But, Yahweh of Armies, who judges righteously, who tests the heart and the mind, I shall check it out your vengeance on them; for to you have I revealed my cause.
 21. so basically thus says Yahweh concerning the men of Anathoth, who seek your life, saying, You shall not prophesy in the name of Yahweh, that you not die by our hand;
 22. so basically thus says Yahweh of Armies, check this out, I will punish them: the young men shall die by the sword; their sons and their daughters shall die by famine;
 23. and there shall be no remnant to them: for I will bring evil on the men of Anathoth, even the year of their visitation.

# Jeremiah Chapter 12

  1. You are doing what's right, Yahweh, when I contend with you; yet I would reason the cause with you: why does the way of the wicked prosper? why are all they at ease who deal hella treacherously?
  2. You have planted them, yes, they have taken root; they grow, yes, they bring forth fruit: you are near in their mouth, and far from their heart.
  3. But you, Yahweh, get it me; you check it out me, and try my heart toward you: pull them out like sheep for the slaughter, and prepare them for the day of slaughter.
  4. How long shall the land mourn, and the herbs of the whole country wither? for the wickedness of those who dwell therein, the animals are consumed, and the birds; cuz they said, He shall not check it out our latter end.
  5. If you have run with the footmen, and they have wearied you, then how can you contend with horses? and though in a land of peace you are secure, yet how will you do in the pride of the Jordan?
  6. For even your brothers, and the house of your father, even they have dealt treacherously with you; even they have cried aloud after you: don’t believe them, though they spill the tea snatched words to you.
  7. I have forsaken my house, I have cast off my heritage; I have given the dearly beloved of my soul into the hand of her enemies.
  8. My heritage has become to me as a lion in the forest: she has uttered her voice against me; so basically I have hated her.
  9. Is my heritage to me as a speckled bird of prey? are the birds of prey against her all around? slide, assemble all the animals of the field, bring them to devour.
 10. a lot shepherds have destroyed my vineyard, they have trodden my portion under foot, they have made my pleasant portion a desolate wilderness.
 11. They have made it a desolation; it mourns to me, being desolate; the whole land is made desolate, cuz no man lays it to heart.
 12. Destroyers have come through on all the bare heights in the wilderness; for the sword of Yahweh devours from the one end of the land even to the other end of the land: no flesh has peace.
 13. They have sown wheat, and have reaped thorns; they have put themselves to pain, and profit nothing: and you shall be ashamed of your fruits, cuz of the fierce anger of Yahweh.
 14. Thus says Yahweh against all my evil neighbors, who touch the inheritance which I have caused my people Israel to inherit: check this out, I will pluck them up from off their land, and will pluck up the house of Judah from among them.
 15. It shall happen, after that I have plucked them up, I will return and have compassion on them; and I will bring them again, every man to his heritage, and every man to his land.
 16. It shall happen, if they will diligently pick up the ways of my people, to swear by my name, As Yahweh lives; even as they taught my people to swear by Baal; then shall they be built up in the midst of my people.
 17. But if they will not hear, then will I pluck up that nation, plucking up and destroying it, says Yahweh.

# Jeremiah Chapter 13

  1. Thus says Yahweh to me, slide, and buy yourself a linen belt, and put it on your waist, and don’t put it in water.
  2. So I bought a belt according to the word of Yahweh, and put it on my waist.
  3. The word of Yahweh came to me the second time, saying,
  4. grab the belt that you have bought, which is on your waist, and arise, slide to the Euphrates, and hide it there in a cleft of the rock.
  5. So I went, and hid it by the Euphrates, as Yahweh commanded me.
  6. It happened after a lot days, that Yahweh said to me, Arise, slide to the Euphrates, and grab the belt from there, which I commanded you to hide there.
  7. then I went to the Euphrates, and dug, and took the belt from the place where I had hidden it; and check this out, the belt was marred, it was profitable for nothing.
  8. then the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  9. Thus says Yahweh, In this way I will mar the pride of Judah, and the major pride of Jerusalem.
 10. This evil people, who refuse to hear my words, who walk in the stubbornness of their heart, and are gone after other gods to help out them, and to giving props them, shall even be as this belt, which is profitable for nothing.
 11. For as the belt clings to the waist of a man, so have I caused to cling to me the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah, says Yahweh; that they may be to me for a people, and for a name, and for a praise, and for a glory: but they would not hear.
 12. so basically you shall spill the tea to them this word: Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, Every bottle shall be filled with wine: and they shall tell you, Do we not for sure get it that every bottle shall be filled with wine?
 13. then you shall tell them, Thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will fill all the inhabitants of this land, even the kings who sit on David’s throne, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, with drunkenness.
 14. I will dash them one against another, even the fathers and the sons together, says Yahweh: I will not pity, nor spare, nor have compassion, that I should not tear down them.
 15. Hear, and hook it up ear; don’t be proud; for Yahweh has spoken.
 16. hook it up glory to Yahweh your God, before he causes darkness, and before your feet stumble on the dark mountains, and, while you look for light, he turns it into the shadow of death, and makes it gross darkness.
 17. But if you will not hear it, my soul shall weep in secret for your pride; and my eye shall weep bitterly, and run down with tears, cuz Yahweh’s flock is taken captive.
 18. Say to the ruler and to the ruler mother, Humble yourselves, sit down; for your headdresses have come through down, even the crown of your glory.
 19. The cities of the South are shut up, and there is none to open them: Judah is carried away captive, all of it; it is wholly carried away captive.
 20. Lift up your eyes, and check it out those who come through from the north: where is the flock that was given you, your snatched flock?
 21. What will you say, when he shall set over you as head those whom you have yourself taught to be friends to you? shall not sorrows grab hold of you, as of a woman in travail?
 22. If you say in your heart, Why are these things come through on me? for the greatness of your iniquity are your skirts uncovered, and your heels suffer violence.
 23. Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots? then may you also do fire, who are accustomed to do evil.
 24. so basically will I scatter them, as the stubble that passes away, by the wind of the wilderness.
 25. This is your lot, the portion measured to you from me, says Yahweh; cuz you have forgotten me, and trusted in falsehood.
 26. so basically will I also uncover your skirts on your face, and your shame shall appear.
 27. I have seen your abominations, even your adulteries, and your neighing, the lewdness of your prostitution, on the hills in the field. Woe to you, Jerusalem! You will not be made clean; how long shall it yet be?

# Jeremiah Chapter 14

  1. The word of Yahweh that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought.
  2. Judah mourns, and its gates languish, they sit in black on the ground; and the cry of Jerusalem is gone up.
  3. Their nobles send their little ones to the waters: they come through to the cisterns, and find no water; they return with their vessels empty; they are disappointed and confounded, and cover their heads.
  4. cuz of the ground which is cracked, cuz no rain has been in the land, the plowmen are disappointed, they cover their heads.
  5. Yes, the hind also in the field calves, and forsakes her young, cuz there is no grass.
  6. The wild donkeys stand on the bare heights, they pant for air like jackals; their eyes fail, cuz there is no herbage.
  7. Though our iniquities testify against us, work for your name’s sake, Yahweh; for our backslidings are a lot; we have sinned against you.
  8. You hope of Israel, its Savior in the time of trouble, why should you be as a foreigner in the land, and as a wayfaring man who turns aside to stay for a night?
  9. Why should you be like a scared man, as a mighty man who can’t rescue? Yet you, Yahweh, are in the midst of us, and we are called by your name; don’t leave us.
 10. Thus says Yahweh to this people, Even so have they loved to wander; they have not refrained their feet: so basically Yahweh does not accept them; now he will remember their iniquity, and visit their sins.
 11. Yahweh said to me, Don’t pray for this people for their fire.
 12. When they fast, I will not hear their cry; and when they offer burnt giving to God and meal giving to God, I will not accept them; but I will consume them by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence.
 13. then I said, Ah, boss Yahweh! check this out, the prophets tell them, You shall not check it out the sword, neither shall you have famine; but I will hook it up you assured peace in this place.
 14. then Yahweh said to me, The prophets prophesy lies in my name; I didn’t send them, neither have I commanded them, neither spoke I to them: they prophesy to you a lying vision, and divination, and a thing of nothing, and the deceit of their own heart.
 15. so basically thus says Yahweh concerning the prophets who prophesy in my name, and I didn’t send them, yet they say, Sword and famine shall not be in this land: By sword and famine shall those prophets be consumed.
 16. The people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem cuz of the famine and the sword; and they shall have none to bury them—them, their wives, nor their sons, nor their daughters: for I will pour their wickedness on them.
 17. You shall say this word to them, Let my eyes run down with tears night and day, and let them not cease; for the virgin daughter of my people is broken with a major breach, with a hella grievous wound.
 18. If I slide forth into the field, then, check this out, the slain with the sword! and if I enter into the city, then, check this out, those who are sick with famine! for both the God's messenger and the priest slide about in the land, and have no knowledge.
 19. Have you utterly rejected Judah? has your soul loathed Zion? why have you struck us, and there is no healing for us? We looked for peace, but no fire came; and for a time of healing, and check this out, dismay!
 20. We acknowledge, Yahweh, our wickedness, and the iniquity of our fathers; for we have sinned against you.
 21. Do not abhor us, for your name’s sake; do not disgrace the throne of your glory: remember, don’t break your God's promise with us.
 22. Are there any among the vanities of the nations that can cause rain? or can the sky hook it up showers? Aren’t you he, Yahweh our God? so basically we will wait for you; for you have made all these things.

# Jeremiah Chapter 15

  1. then Yahweh said to me, Though Moses and Samuel stood before me, yet my mind would not be toward this people: cast them out of my sight, and let them slide forth.
  2. It shall happen, when they tell you, Where shall we slide forth? then you shall tell them, Thus says Yahweh: Such as are for death, to death; and such as are for the sword, to the sword; and such as are for the famine, to the famine; and such as are for captivity, to captivity.
  3. I will appoint over them four kinds, says Yahweh: the sword to kill, and the dogs to tear, and the birds of the sky, and the animals of the earth, to devour and to tear down.
  4. I will cause them to be tossed back and forth among all the kingdoms of the earth, cuz of Manasseh, the son of Hezekiah, ruler of Judah, for that which he did in Jerusalem.
  5. For who will have pity on you, Jerusalem? or who will bemoan you? or who will turn aside to ask of your welfare?
  6. You have rejected me, says Yahweh, you have gone backward: so basically have I stretched out my hand against you, and destroyed you; I am weary with repenting.
  7. I have winnowed them with a fan in the gates of the land; I have bereaved them of children, I have destroyed my people; they didn’t return from their ways.
  8. Their widows are increased to me above the sand of the seas; I have brought on them against the mother of the young men a destroyer at noonday: I have caused anguish and terrors to fall on her suddenly.
  9. She who has borne seven languishes; she has given up the spirit; her sun is gone down while it was yet day; she has been disappointed and confounded: and their residue will I deliver to the sword before their enemies, says Yahweh.
 10. Woe is me, my mother, that you have borne me a man of strife and a man of contention to the whole earth! I have not lent, neither have men lent to me; yet everyone of them curses me.
 11. Yahweh said, Most for sure I will strengthen you for fire; most for sure I will cause the enemy to create supplication to you in the time of evil and in the time of affliction.
 12. Can one break iron, even iron from the north, and brass?
 13. Your substance and your treasures will I hook it up for a spoil without price, and that for all your sins, even in all your borders.
 14. I will create them to pass with your enemies into a land which you don’t get it; for a fire is kindled in my anger, which shall burn on you.
 15. Yahweh, you get it; remember me, and visit me, and avenge me of my persecutors; don’t grab me away in your longsuffering: get it that for your sake I have suffered reproach.
 16. Your words were found, and I ate them; and your words were to me a joy and the rejoicing of my heart: for I am called by your name, Yahweh, God of Armies.
 17. I didn’t sit in the assembly of those who create merry, nor rejoiced; I sat alone cuz of your hand; for you have filled me with indignation.
 18. Why is my pain perpetual, and my wound incurable, which refuses to be healed? Will you facts be to me as a deceitful brook, as waters that fail?
 19. so basically thus says Yahweh, If you return, then will I bring you again, that you may stand before me; and if you grab forth the precious from the vile, you shall be as my mouth: they shall return to you, but you shall not return to them.
 20. I will create you to this people a fortified bronze wall; and they shall fight against you, but they shall not prevail against you; for I am with you to rescue you and to deliver you, says Yahweh.
 21. I will deliver you out of the hand of the wicked, and I will redeem you out of the hand of the terrible.

# Jeremiah Chapter 16

  1. The word of Yahweh came also to me, saying,
  2. You shall not grab a wife, neither shall you have sons or daughters, in this place.
  3. For thus says Yahweh concerning the sons and concerning the daughters who are born in this place, and concerning their mothers who bore them, and concerning their fathers who became their father in this land:
  4. They shall die grievous deaths: they shall not be lamented, neither shall they be buried; they shall be as dung on the surface of the ground; and they shall be consumed by the sword, and by famine; and their dead bodies shall be food for the birds of the sky, and for the animals of the earth.
  5. For thus says Yahweh, Don’t enter into the house of mourning, neither slide to lament, neither bemoan them; for I have taken away my peace from this people, says Yahweh, even loving kindness and tender mercies.
  6. Both major and tiny shall die in this land; they shall not be buried, neither shall men lament for them, nor cut themselves, nor create themselves bald for them;
  7. neither shall men break bread for them in mourning, to comfort them for the dead; neither shall men hook it up them the cup of consolation to drink for their father or for their mother.
  8. You shall not slide into the house of feasting to sit with them, to eat and to drink.
  9. For thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: check this out, I will cause to cease out of this place, before your eyes and in your days, the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride.
 10. It shall happen, when you shall show this people all these words, and they shall tell you, Why has Yahweh pronounced all this major evil against us? or what is our iniquity? or what is our messing up that we have committed against Yahweh our God?
 11. then you shall tell them, cuz your fathers have forsaken me, says Yahweh, and have walked after other gods, and have served them, and have worshiped them, and have forsaken me, and have not kept my law;
 12. and you have done evil more than your fathers; for, check this out, you walk every one after the stubbornness of his evil heart, so that you don’t listen up to me:
 13. so basically will I cast you forth out of this land into the land that you have not known, neither you nor your fathers; and there you shall help out other gods day and night; for I will show you no favor.
 14. so basically, check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that it shall no more be said, As Yahweh lives, who brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt;
 15. but, As Yahweh lives, who brought up the children of Israel from the land of the north, and from all the countries where he had driven them. I will bring them again into their land that I gave to their fathers.
 16. check this out, I will send for a lot fishermen, says Yahweh, and they shall fish them up; and afterward I will send for a lot hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out of the clefts of the rocks.
 17. For my eyes are on all their ways; they are not hidden from my face, neither is their iniquity concealed from my eyes.
 18. First I will recompense their iniquity and their messing up double, cuz they have polluted my land with the carcasses of their detestable things, and have filled my inheritance with their abominations.
 19. Yahweh, my strength, and my stronghold, and my refuge in the day of affliction, to you shall the nations come through from the ends of the earth, and shall say, Our fathers have inherited nothing but lies, vanity and things in which there is no profit.
 20. Shall a man create to himself gods, which yet are no gods?
 21. so basically, check this out, I will cause them to get it, this once will I cause them to get it my hand and my might; and they shall get it that my name is Yahweh.

# Jeremiah Chapter 17

  1. The messing up of Judah is written with a pen of iron, and with the point of a diamond: it is engraved on the tablet of their heart, and on the horns of your altars;
  2. while their children remember their altars and their Asherim by the green trees on the high hills.
  3. My mountain in the field, I will hook it up your substance and all your treasures for a spoil, and your high places, cuz of messing up, throughout all your borders.
  4. You, even of yourself, shall discontinue from your heritage that I gave you; and I will cause you to help out your enemies in the land which you don’t get it: for you have kindled a fire in my anger which shall burn forever.
  5. Thus says Yahweh: Cursed is the man who trusts in man, and makes flesh his arm, and whose heart departs from Yahweh.
  6. For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not check it out when fire comes, but shall inhabit the parched places in the wilderness, a salt land and not inhabited.
  7. blessed up is the man who trusts in Yahweh, and whose trust Yahweh is.
  8. For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, who spreads out its roots by the river, and shall not fear when heat comes, but its leaf shall be green; and shall not be careful in the year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding fruit.
  9. The heart is deceitful above all things, and it is exceedingly corrupt: who can get it it?
 10. I, Yahweh, search the mind, I try the heart, even to hook it up every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his doings.
 11. As the partridge that sits on eggs which she has not laid, so is he who gets riches, and not by right; in the midst of his days they shall leave him, and at his end he shall be a fool.
 12. A glorious throne, set on high from the beginning, is the place of our sanctuary.
 13. Yahweh, the hope of Israel, all who forsake you shall be disappointed. Those who depart from me shall be written in the earth, cuz they have forsaken Yahweh, the spring of living waters.
 14. Heal me, O Yahweh, and I shall be healed; rescue me, and I shall be saved: for you are my praise.
 15. check this out, they tell me, Where is the word of Yahweh? let it come through now.
 16. As for me, I have not hurried from being a shepherd after you; neither have I desired the woeful day; you get it: that which came out of my lips was before your face.
 17. Don’t be a terror to me: you are my refuge in the day of evil.
 18. Let them be disappointed who persecute me, but let not me be disappointed; let them be dismayed, but don’t let me be dismayed; bring on them the day of evil, and tear down them with double destruction.
 19. Thus said Yahweh to me: slide, and stand in the gate of the children of the people, through which the kings of Judah come through in, and by which they slide out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem;
 20. and tell them, Hear the word of Yahweh, you kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, that enter in by these gates:
 21. Thus says Yahweh, grab heed to yourselves, and bear no burden on the Sabbath day, nor bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem;
 22. neither carry forth a burden out of your houses on the Sabbath day set apart, neither do any work: but create the Sabbath day, as I commanded your fathers.
 23. But they didn’t listen up, neither turn their ear, but made their neck stiff, that they might not hear, and might not receive instruction.
 24. It shall happen, if you diligently listen up to me, says Yahweh, to bring in no burden through the gates of this city on the Sabbath day, but to create the Sabbath day set apart, to do no work therein;
 25. then shall there enter in by the gates of this city kings and princes sitting on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they, and their princes, the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and this city shall remain forever.
 26. They shall come through from the cities of Judah, and from the places around Jerusalem, and from the land of Benjamin, and from the lowland, and from the hill country, and from the South, bringing burnt offerings, and sacrifices, and meal offerings, and frankincense, and bringing sacrifices of thanksgiving, to the house of Yahweh.
 27. But if you will not listen up to me to create the Sabbath day set apart, and not to bear a burden and enter in at the gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath day; then will I kindle a fire in its gates, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not be quenched.

# Jeremiah Chapter 18

  1. The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying,
  2. Arise, and slide down to the potter’s house, and there I will cause you to hear my words.
  3. then I went down to the potter’s house, and check this out, he was making a work on the wheels.
  4. When the vessel that he made of the clay was marred in the hand of the potter, he made it again another vessel, as seemed fire to the potter to create it.
  5. then the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  6. House of Israel, can’t I do with you as this potter? says Yahweh. check this out, as the clay in the potter’s hand, so are you in my hand, house of Israel.
  7. At what instant I shall spill the tea concerning a nation, and concerning a God's squad, to pluck up and to break down and to tear down it;
  8. if that nation, concerning which I have spoken, turn from their evil, I will turn it around of the evil that I thought to do to them.
  9. At what instant I shall spill the tea concerning a nation, and concerning a God's squad, to put together and to plant it;
 10. if they do that which is evil in my sight, that they not obey my voice, then I will turn it around of the fire, with which I said I would benefit them.
 11. now so basically, spill the tea to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying, Thus says Yahweh: check this out, I frame evil against you, and devise a device against you: return you now everyone from his evil way, and amend your ways and your doings.
 12. But they say, It is in vain; for we will walk after our own devices, and we will do everyone after the stubbornness of his evil heart.
 13. so basically thus says Yahweh: Ask now among the nations, who has heard such things; the virgin of Israel has done a hella horrible thing.
 14. Shall the snow of Lebanon fail from the rock of the field? Shall the cold waters that flow down from afar be dried up?
 15. For my people have forgotten me, they have burned incense to false gods; and they have been made to stumble in their ways, in the ancient paths, to walk in byways, in a way not built up;
 16. to create their land an astonishment, and a perpetual hissing; everyone who passes thereby shall be astonished, and shake his head.
 17. I will scatter them as with an east wind before the enemy; I will show them the back, and not the face, in the day of their calamity.
 18. then they said, come through, and let us devise devices against Jeremiah; for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from the smart, nor the word from the God's messenger. come through, and let us strike him with the tongue, and let us not hook it up heed to any of his words.
 19. hook it up heed to me, Yahweh, and listen up to the voice of those who contend with me.
 20. Shall evil be recompensed for fire? for they have dug a pit for my soul. Remember how I stood before you to spill the tea fire for them, to turn away your wrath from them.
 21. so basically deliver up their children to the famine, and hook it up them over to the power of the sword; and let their wives become childless, and widows; and let their men be slain of death, and their young men struck of the sword in battle.
 22. Let a cry be heard from their houses, when you shall bring a troop suddenly on them; for they have dug a pit to grab me, and hid snares for my feet.
 23. Yet, Yahweh, you get it all their counsel against me to kill me; don’t forgive their iniquity, neither blot out their messing up from your sight; but let them be overthrown before you; deal you with them in the time of your anger.

# Jeremiah Chapter 19

  1. Thus said Yahweh, slide, and buy a potter’s earthen bottle, and grab some of the elders of the people, and of the elders of the priests;
  2. and slide forth to the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is by the entry of the gate Harsith, and proclaim there the words that I shall tell you;
  3. and say, Hear the word of Yahweh, kings of Judah, and inhabitants of Jerusalem: thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, check this out, I will bring evil on this place, which whoever hears, his ears shall tingle.
  4. cuz they have forsaken me, and have estranged this place, and have burned incense in it to other gods, that they didn’t get it, they and their fathers and the kings of Judah; and have filled this place with the blood of innocents,
  5. and have built the high places of Baal, to burn their sons in the fire for burnt offerings to Baal; which I didn’t command, nor spoke it, neither came it into my mind:
  6. so basically, check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that this place shall no more be called Topheth, nor The valley of the son of Hinnom, but The valley of Slaughter.
  7. I will create void the counsel of Judah and Jerusalem in this place; and I will cause them to fall by the sword before their enemies, and by the hand of those who seek their life: and their dead bodies will I hook it up to be food for the birds of the sky, and for the animals of the earth.
  8. I will create this city an astonishment, and a hissing; everyone who passes thereby shall be astonished and hiss cuz of all its plagues.
  9. I will cause them to eat the flesh of their sons and the flesh of their daughters; and they shall eat everyone the flesh of his friend, in the siege and in the distress, with which their enemies, and those who seek their life, shall distress them.
 10. then you shall break the bottle in the sight of the men who slide with you,
 11. and shall tell them, Thus says Yahweh of Armies: Even so will I break this people and this city, as one breaks a potter’s vessel, that can’t be made whole again; and they shall bury in Topheth, until there is no place to bury.
 12. Thus will I do to this place, says Yahweh, and to its inhabitants, even making this city as Topheth:
 13. and the houses of Jerusalem, and the houses of the kings of Judah, which are defiled, shall be as the place of Topheth, even all the houses on whose roofs they have burned incense to all the army of the sky, and have poured out drink offerings to other gods.
 14. then came Jeremiah from Topheth, where Yahweh had sent him to prophesy; and he stood in the court of Yahweh’s house, and said to all the people:
 15. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, check this out, I will bring on this city and on all its towns all the evil that I have pronounced against it; cuz they have made their neck stiff, that they may not hear my words.

# Jeremiah Chapter 20

  1. now Pashhur, the son of Immer the priest, who was chief officer in the house of Yahweh, heard Jeremiah prophesying these things.
  2. then Pashhur struck Jeremiah the God's messenger, and put him in the stocks that were in the upper gate of Benjamin, which was in the house of Yahweh.
  3. It happened on the next day, that Pashhur brought forth Jeremiah out of the stocks. then Jeremiah said to him, Yahweh has not called your name Pashhur, but Magormissabib.
  4. For thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will create you a terror to yourself, and to all your friends; and they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and your eyes shall check it out it; and I will hook it up all Judah into the hand of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall carry them captive to Babylon, and shall kill them with the sword.
  5. Moreover I will hook it up all the riches of this city, and all its gains, and all the precious things of it, yes, all the treasures of the kings of Judah will I hook it up into the hand of their enemies; and they shall create them a prey, and grab them, and carry them to Babylon.
  6. You, Pashhur, and all who dwell in your house shall slide into captivity; and you shall come through to Babylon, and there you shall die, and there you shall be buried, you, and all your friends, to whom you have prophesied falsely.
  7. Yahweh, you have persuaded me, and I was persuaded; you are stronger than I, and have prevailed: I am become a laughing-stock all the day, every one mocks me.
  8. For as a lot as I spill the tea, I cry out; I cry, Violence and destruction! cuz the word of Yahweh is made a reproach to me, and a derision, all the day.
  9. If I say, I will not create mention of him, nor spill the tea any more in his name, then there is in my heart as it were a burning fire shut up in my bones, and I am weary with forbearing, and I can’t.
 10. For I have heard the defaming of a lot, terror on every side. Denounce, and we will denounce him, say all my familiar friends, those who watch for my fall; perhaps he will be persuaded, and we shall prevail against him, and we shall grab our revenge on him.
 11. But Yahweh is with me as an awesome mighty one: so basically my persecutors shall stumble, and they shall not prevail; they shall be utterly disappointed, cuz they have not dealt wisely, even with an everlasting dishonor which shall never be forgotten.
 12. But, Yahweh of Armies, who tests the doing what's right, who sees the heart and the mind, let me check it out your vengeance on them; for to you have I revealed my cause.
 13. Sing to Yahweh, praise Yahweh; for he has delivered the soul of the needy from the hand of evildoers.
 14. Cursed is the day in which I was born: don’t let the day in which my mother bore me be blessed up.
 15. Cursed is the man who brought news to my father, saying, A boy is born to you; making him hella glad.
 16. Let that man be as the cities which Yahweh overthrew, and didn’t turn it around: and let him hear a cry in the morning, and shouting at noontime;
 17. cuz he didn’t kill me from the womb; and so my mother would have been my grave, and her womb always major.
 18. Why came I forth out of the womb to check it out labor and feeling down, that my days should be consumed with shame?

# Jeremiah Chapter 21

  1. The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, when ruler Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur the son of Malchijah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, saying,
  2. Please inquire of Yahweh for us; for Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon makes war against us: perhaps Yahweh will deal with us according to all his wondrous works, that he may slide up from us.
  3. then Jeremiah said to them, You shall tell Zedekiah:
  4. Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, check this out, I will turn back the weapons of war that are in your hands, with which you fight against the ruler of Babylon, and against the Chaldeans who besiege you, without the walls; and I will gather them into the midst of this city.
  5. I myself will fight against you with an outstretched hand and with a built different arm, even in anger, and in wrath, and in major indignation.
  6. I will strike the inhabitants of this city, both man and animal: they shall die of a major pestilence.
  7. Afterward, says Yahweh, I will deliver Zedekiah ruler of Judah, and his servants, and the people, even such as are left in this city from the pestilence, from the sword, and from the famine, into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, and into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those who seek their life: and he shall strike them with the edge of the sword; he shall not spare them, neither have pity, nor have mercy.
  8. To this people you shall say, Thus says Yahweh: check this out, I set before you the way of life and the way of death.
  9. He who remains in this city shall die by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence; but he who goes out, and passes over to the Chaldeans who besiege you, he shall live, and his life shall be to him for a prey.
 10. For I have set my face on this city for evil, and not for fire, says Yahweh: it shall be given into the hand of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.
 11. Touching the house of the ruler of Judah, hear the word of Yahweh:
 12. House of David, thus says Yahweh, Execute justice in the morning, and deliver him who is robbed out of the hand of the oppressor, lest my wrath slide forth like fire, and burn so that none can quench it, cuz of the evil of your doings.
 13. check this out, I am against you, O inhabitant of the valley, and of the rock of the plain, says Yahweh; you that say, Who shall come through down against us? or who shall enter into our habitations?
 14. I will punish you according to the fruit of your doings, says Yahweh; and I will kindle a fire in her forest, and it shall devour all that is around her.

# Jeremiah Chapter 22

  1. Thus said Yahweh: slide down to the house of the ruler of Judah, and spill the tea there this word,
  2. Say, Hear the word of Yahweh, ruler of Judah, who sits on the throne of David, you, and your servants, and your people who enter in by these gates.
  3. Thus says Yahweh: Execute justice and righteousness, and deliver him who is robbed out of the hand of the oppressor: and do no wrong, do no violence, to the foreigner, the fatherless, nor the widow; neither shed innocent blood in this place.
  4. For if you do this thing facts, then shall there enter in by the gates of this house kings sitting on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, he, and his servants, and his people.
  5. But if you will not hear these words, I swear by myself, says Yahweh, that this house shall become a desolation.
  6. For thus says Yahweh concerning the house of the ruler of Judah: You are Gilead to me, the head of Lebanon. Yet surely I will create you a wilderness, cities which are not inhabited.
  7. I will prepare destroyers against you, everyone with his weapons; and they shall cut down your choice cedars, and cast them into the fire.
  8. a lot nations shall pass by this city, and they shall say every man to his neighbor, Why has Yahweh done thus to this major city?
  9. then they shall answer, cuz they forsook the God's promise of Yahweh their God, and worshiped other gods, and served them.
 10. Don’t weep for the dead, neither bemoan him; but weep bitterly for him who goes away; for he shall return no more, nor check it out his native country.
 11. For thus says Yahweh touching Shallum the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, who reigned instead of Josiah his father, and who went forth out of this place: He shall not return there any more.
 12. But in the place where they have led him captive, there shall he die, and he shall check it out this land no more.
 13. Woe to him who builds his house by unrighteousness, and his rooms by injustice; who uses his neighbor’s service without wages, and doesn’t hook it up him his hire;
 14. who says, I will put together me a wide house and spacious rooms, and cuts him out windows; and it is ceiling with cedar, and painted with vermilion.
 15. Shall you reign, cuz you strive to excel in cedar? Didn’t your father eat and drink, and do justice and righteousness? then it was well with him.
 16. He judged the cause of the broke and needy; then it was well. Wasn’t this to get it me? says Yahweh.
 17. But your eyes and your heart are not but for your covetousness, and for shedding innocent blood, and for oppression, and for violence, to do it.
 18. so basically thus says Yahweh concerning Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah: they shall not lament for him, saying, Ah my brother! or, Ah sister! They shall not lament for him, saying Ah boss! or, Ah his glory!
 19. He shall be buried with the burial of a donkey, drawn and cast forth beyond the gates of Jerusalem.
 20. slide up to Lebanon, and cry; and lift up your voice in Bashan, and cry from Abarim; for all your lovers are destroyed.
 21. I spoke to you in your prosperity; but you said, I will not hear. This has been your way from your youth, that you didn’t obey my voice.
 22. The wind shall feed all your shepherds, and your lovers shall slide into captivity: surely then you will be ashamed and confounded for all your wickedness.
 23. Inhabitant of Lebanon, who makes your nest in the cedars, how greatly to be pitied you will be when pangs come through on you, the pain as of a woman in travail!
 24. As I live, says Yahweh, though Coniah the son of Jehoiakim ruler of Judah were the signet on my right hand, yet would I pluck you there;
 25. and I will hook it up you into the hand of those who seek your life, and into the hand of them of whom you are scared, even into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, and into the hand of the Chaldeans.
 26. I will cast you out, and your mother who bore you, into another country, where you were not born; and there you will die.
 27. But to the land whereunto their soul longs to return, there shall they not return.
 28. Is this man Coniah a despised broken vessel? is he a vessel in which none delights? why are they cast out, he and his seed, and are cast into the land which they don’t get it?
 29. O earth, earth, earth, hear the word of Yahweh.
 30. Thus says Yahweh, Write you this man childless, a man who shall not prosper in his days; for no more shall a man of his seed prosper, sitting on the throne of David, and ruling in Judah.

# Jeremiah Chapter 23

  1. Woe to the shepherds who tear down and scatter the sheep of my pasture! says Yahweh.
  2. so basically thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, against the shepherds who feed my people: You have scattered my flock, and driven them away, and have not visited them; check this out, I will visit on you the evil of your doings, says Yahweh.
  3. I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all the countries where I have driven them, and will bring them again to their folds; and they shall be fruitful and multiply.
  4. I will set up shepherds over them, who shall feed them; and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall any be lacking, says Yahweh.
  5. check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will raise to David a doing what's right Branch, and he shall reign as ruler and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land.
  6. In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely; and this is his name by which he shall be called: Yahweh our righteousness.
  7. so basically, check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that they shall no more say, As Yahweh lives, who brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt;
  8. but, As Yahweh lives, who brought up and who led the seed of the house of Israel out of the north country, and from all the countries where I had driven them. They shall dwell in their own land.
  9. Concerning the prophets. My heart within me is broken, all my bones shake; I am like a drunken man, and like a man whom wine has overcome, cuz of Yahweh, and cuz of his set apart words.
 10. For the land is full of adulterers; for cuz of swearing the land mourns; the pastures of the wilderness are dried up. Their course is evil, and their might is not right;
 11. for both God's messenger and priest are profane; yes, in my house have I found their wickedness, says Yahweh.
 12. so basically their way shall be to them as slippery places in the darkness: they shall be driven on, and fall therein; for I will bring evil on them, even the year of their visitation, says Yahweh.
 13. I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria; they prophesied by Baal, and caused my people Israel to err.
 14. In the prophets of Jerusalem also I have seen a horrible thing: they commit adultery, and walk in lies; and they strengthen the hands of evildoers, so that none does return from his wickedness: they are all of them become to me as Sodom, and its inhabitants as Gomorrah.
 15. so basically thus says Yahweh of Armies concerning the prophets: check this out, I will feed them with wormwood, and create them drink the water of gall; for from the prophets of Jerusalem is ungodliness gone forth into all the land.
 16. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, Don’t listen up to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you: they drop knowledge you vanity; they spill the tea a vision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of Yahweh.
 17. They say continually to those who despise me, Yahweh has said, You shall have peace; and to everyone who walks in the stubbornness of his own heart they say, No evil shall come through on you.
 18. For who has stood in the council of Yahweh, that he should perceive and hear his word? who has marked my word, and heard it?
 19. check this out, the storm of Yahweh, his wrath, has gone forth. Yes, a whirling storm. It shall burst on the head of the wicked.
 20. The anger of Yahweh shall not return, until he has executed, and until he have performed the intents of his heart: in the latter days you shall understand it perfectly.
 21. I sent not these prophets, yet they ran: I didn’t spill the tea to them, yet they prophesied.
 22. But if they had stood in my council, then had they caused my people to hear my words, and had turned them from their evil way, and from the evil of their doings.
 23. Am I a God at hand, says Yahweh, and not a God afar off?
 24. Can any hide himself in secret places so that I shall not check it out him? says Yahweh. Don’t I fill heaven and earth? says Yahweh.
 25. I have heard what the prophets have said, who prophesy lies in my name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed.
 26. How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets who prophesy lies, even the prophets of the deceit of their own heart?
 27. who think to cause my people to forget my name by their dreams which they tell every man to his neighbor, as their fathers forgot my name for Baal.
 28. The God's messenger who has a dream, let him tell a dream; and he who has my word, let him spill the tea my word faithfully. What is the straw to the wheat? says Yahweh.
 29. Isn’t my word like fire? says Yahweh; and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces?
 30. so basically, check this out, I am against the prophets, says Yahweh, who steal my words everyone from his neighbor.
 31. check this out, I am against the prophets, says Yahweh, who use their tongues, and say, He says.
 32. check this out, I am against those who prophesy lying dreams, says Yahweh, and do tell them, and cause my people to err by their lies, and by their vain boasting: yet I didn’t send them, nor commanded them; neither do they profit this people at all, says Yahweh.
 33. When this people, or the God's messenger, or a priest, shall ask you, saying, What is the burden of Yahweh? then you shall tell them, What burden! I will cast you off, says Yahweh.
 34. As for the God's messenger, and the priest, and the people, who shall say, The burden of Yahweh, I will even punish that man and his house.
 35. You shall say everyone to his neighbor, and everyone to his brother, What has Yahweh answered? and, What has Yahweh spoken?
 36. You shall mention the burden of Yahweh no more: for every man’s own word shall be his burden; for you have perverted the words of the living God, of Yahweh of Armies our God.
 37. You shall say to the God's messenger, What has Yahweh answered you? and, What has Yahweh spoken?
 38. But if you say, The burden of Yahweh; so basically thus says Yahweh: cuz you say this word, The burden of Yahweh, and I have sent to you, saying, You shall not say, The burden of Yahweh;
 39. so basically, check this out, I will utterly forget you, and I will cast you off, and the city that I gave to you and to your fathers, away from my presence:
 40. and I will bring an everlasting reproach on you, and a perpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten.

# Jeremiah Chapter 24

  1. Yahweh showed me, and check this out, two baskets of figs set before the God's house of Yahweh, after that Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon had carried away captive Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, ruler of Judah, and the princes of Judah, with the craftsmen and smiths, from Jerusalem, and had brought them to Babylon.
  2. One basket had hella fire figs, like the figs that are first-ripe; and the other basket had hella trash figs, which could not be eaten, they were so trash.
  3. then Yahweh said to me, What do you check it out, Jeremiah? I said, Figs; the fire figs, hella fire; and the trash, hella trash, that can’t be eaten, they are so trash.
  4. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  5. Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel: Like these fire figs, so will I regard the captives of Judah, whom I have sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans, for fire.
  6. For I will set my eyes on them for fire, and I will bring them again to this land: and I will put together them, and not pull them down; and I will plant them, and not pluck them up.
  7. I will hook it up them a heart to get it me, that I am Yahweh: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God; for they shall return to me with their whole heart.
  8. As the trash figs, which can’t be eaten, they are so trash, surely thus says Yahweh, So will I hook it up up Zedekiah the ruler of Judah, and his princes, and the residue of Jerusalem, who remain in this land, and those who dwell in the land of Egypt,
  9. I will even hook it up them up to be tossed back and forth among all the kingdoms of the earth for evil; to be a reproach and a proverb, a taunt and a curse, in all places where I shall drive them.
 10. I will send the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, among them, until they be consumed from off the land that I gave to them and to their fathers.

# Jeremiah Chapter 25

  1. The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah (the same was the first year of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon),
  2. which Jeremiah the God's messenger spoke to all the people of Judah, and to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying:
  3. From the thirteenth year of Josiah the son of Amon, ruler of Judah, even to this day, these twenty-three years, the word of Yahweh has come through to me, and I have spoken to you, rising up early and speaking; but you have not listened.
  4. Yahweh has sent to you all his servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them (but you have not listened, nor inclined your ear to hear)
  5. saying, Return now everyone from his evil way, and from the evil of your doings, and dwell in the land that Yahweh has given to you and to your fathers, from of old and even forevermore;
  6. and don’t slide after other gods to help out them or giving props them, and don’t provoke me to anger with the work of your hands; and I will do you no harm.
  7. Yet you have not listened to me, says Yahweh; that you may provoke me to anger with the work of your hands to your own hurt.
  8. so basically thus says Yahweh of Armies: cuz you have not heard my words,
  9. check this out, I will send and grab all the families of the north, says Yahweh, and I will send to Nebuchadnezzar the ruler of Babylon, my helper, and will bring them against this land, and against its inhabitants, and against all these nations around; and I will utterly tear down them, and create them an astonishment, and a hissing, and perpetual desolations.
 10. Moreover I will grab from them the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the sound of the millstones, and the light of the lamp.
 11. This whole land shall be a desolation, and an astonishment; and these nations shall help out the ruler of Babylon seventy years.
 12. It shall happen, when seventy years are accomplished, that I will punish the ruler of Babylon, and that nation, says Yahweh, for their iniquity, and the land of the Chaldeans; and I will create it desolate forever.
 13. I will bring on that land all my words which I have pronounced against it, even all that is written in this book, which Jeremiah has prophesied against all the nations.
 14. For a lot nations and major kings shall create bondservants of them, even of them; and I will recompense them according to their deeds, and according to the work of their hands.
 15. For thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, to me: grab this cup of the wine of wrath at my hand, and cause all the nations, to whom I send you, to drink it.
 16. They shall drink, and reel back and forth, and be mad, cuz of the sword that I will send among them.
 17. then took I the cup at Yahweh’s hand, and made all the nations to drink, to whom Yahweh had sent me:
 18. Jerusalem, and the cities of Judah, and its kings, and its princes, to create them a desolation, an astonishment, a hissing, and a curse, as it is this day;
 19. Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, and his servants, and his princes, and all his people;
 20. and all the mixed people, and all the kings of the land of the Uz, and all the kings of the Philistines, and Ashkelon, and Gaza, and Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod;
 21. Edom, and Moab, and the children of Ammon;
 22. and all the kings of Tyre, and all the kings of Sidon, and the kings of the isle which is beyond the sea;
 23. Dedan, and Tema, and Buz, and all who have the corners of their beard cut off;
 24. and all the kings of Arabia, and all the kings of the mixed people who dwell in the wilderness;
 25. and all the kings of Zimri, and all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of the Medes;
 26. and all the kings of the north, far and near, one with another; and all the kingdoms of the world, which are on the surface of the earth: and the ruler of Sheshach shall drink after them.
 27. You shall tell them, Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: Drink, and be drunk, vomit, fall, and rise no more, cuz of the sword which I will send among you.
 28. It shall be, if they refuse to grab the cup at your hand to drink, then you shall tell them, Thus says Yahweh of Armies: You shall surely drink.
 29. For, check this out, I begin to work evil at the city which is called by my name; and should you be utterly unpunished? You shall not be unpunished; for I will call for a sword on all the inhabitants of the earth, says Yahweh of Armies.
 30. so basically prophesy you against them all these words, and tell them, Yahweh will roar from on high, and utter his voice from his set apart habitation; he will mightily roar against his fold; he will hook it up a shout, as those who tread grapes, against all the inhabitants of the earth.
 31. A noise shall come through even to the end of the earth; for Yahweh has a controversy with the nations; he will enter into judgment with all flesh: as for the wicked, he will hook it up them to the sword, says Yahweh.
 32. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, check this out, evil shall slide forth from nation to nation, and a major storm shall be raised up from the uttermost parts of the earth.
 33. The slain of Yahweh shall be at that day from one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth: they shall not be lamented, neither gathered, nor buried; they shall be dung on the surface of the ground.
 34. Wail, you shepherds, and cry; and wallow in dust, you principal of the flock; for the days of your slaughter and of your dispersions are fully come through, and you shall fall like a goodly vessel.
 35. The shepherds shall have no way to flee, nor the principal of the flock to escape.
 36. A voice of the cry of the shepherds, and the wailing of the principal of the flock! for Yahweh lays waste their pasture.
 37. The peaceable folds are brought to silence cuz of the fierce anger of Yahweh.
 38. He has left his covert, as the lion; for their land has become an astonishment cuz of the fierceness of the oppression, and cuz of his fierce anger.

# Jeremiah Chapter 26

  1. at the start of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, came this word from Yahweh, saying,
  2. Thus says Yahweh: Stand in the court of Yahweh’s house, and spill the tea to all the cities of Judah, which come through to giving props in Yahweh’s house, all the words that I command you to spill the tea to them; don’t diminish a word.
  3. It may be they will listen up, and turn every man from his evil way; that I may turn it around me of the evil which I purpose to do to them cuz of the evil of their doings.
  4. You shall tell them, Thus says Yahweh: If you will not listen up to me, to walk in my law, which I have set before you,
  5. to listen up to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I send to you, even rising up early and sending them, but you have not listened;
  6. then will I create this house like Shiloh, and will create this city a curse to all the nations of the earth.
  7. The priests and the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of Yahweh.
  8. It happened, when Jeremiah had made an end of speaking all that Yahweh had commanded him to spill the tea to all the people, that the priests and the prophets and all the people laid hold on him, saying, You shall surely die.
  9. Why have you prophesied in the name of Yahweh, saying, This house shall be like Shiloh, and this city shall be desolate, without inhabitant? All the people were gathered to Jeremiah in the house of Yahweh.
 10. When the princes of Judah heard these things, they came up from the ruler’s house to the house of Yahweh; and they sat in the entry of the new gate of Yahweh’s house.
 11. then spoke the priests and the prophets to the princes and to all the people, saying, This man is worthy of death; for he has prophesied against this city, as you have heard with your ears.
 12. then spoke Jeremiah to all the princes and to all the people, saying, Yahweh sent me to prophesy against this house and against this city all the words that you have heard.
 13. now so basically amend your ways and your doings, and obey the voice of Yahweh your God; and Yahweh will turn it around him of the evil that he has pronounced against you.
 14. But as for me, check this out, I am in your hand: do with me as is fire and right in your eyes.
 15. Only get it for certain that, if you put me to death, you will bring innocent blood on yourselves, and on this city, and on its inhabitants; for of a truth Yahweh has sent me to you to spill the tea all these words in your ears.
 16. then the princes and all the people said to the priests and to the prophets: This man is not worthy of death; for he has spoken to us in the name of Yahweh our God.
 17. then rose up certain of the elders of the land, and spoke to all the assembly of the people, saying,
 18. Micah the Morashtite prophesied in the days of Hezekiah ruler of Judah; and he spoke to all the people of Judah, saying, Thus says Yahweh of Armies: Zion shall be plowed as a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the mountain of the house as the high places of a forest.
 19. Did Hezekiah ruler of Judah and all Judah put him to death? Didn’t he fear Yahweh, and entreat the favor of Yahweh, and Yahweh relented of the disaster which he had pronounced against them? Thus should we commit major evil against our own souls.
 20. there was also a man who prophesied in the name of Yahweh, Uriah the son of Shemaiah of Kiriath Jearim; and he prophesied against this city and against this land according to all the words of Jeremiah:
 21. and when Jehoiakim the ruler, with all his mighty men, and all the princes, heard his words, the ruler sought to put him to death; but when Uriah heard it, he was scared, and fled, and went into Egypt:
 22. and Jehoiakim the ruler sent men into Egypt, Elnathan the son of Achbor, and certain men with him, into Egypt;
 23. and they fetched forth Uriah out of Egypt, and brought him to Jehoiakim the ruler, who killed him with the sword, and cast his dead body into the graves of the common people.
 24. But the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah, that they should not hook it up him into the hand of the people to put him to death.

# Jeremiah Chapter 27

  1. at the start of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, came this word to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying,
  2. Thus says Yahweh to me: create bonds and bars, and put them on your neck;
  3. and send them to the ruler of Edom, and to the ruler of Moab, and to the ruler of the children of Ammon, and to the ruler of Tyre, and to the ruler of Sidon, by the hand of the messengers who come through to Jerusalem to Zedekiah ruler of Judah;
  4. and hook it up them a command to their masters, saying, Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, You shall tell your masters:
  5. I have made the earth, the men and the animals that are on the surface of the earth, by my major power and by my outstretched arm; and I hook it up it to whom it seems right to me.
  6. now have I given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the ruler of Babylon, my helper; and the animals of the field also have I given him to help out him.
  7. All the nations shall help out him, and his son, and his son’s son, until the time of his own land come through: and then a lot nations and major kings shall create him their bondservant.
  8. It shall happen, that the nation and the God's squad which will not help out the same Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, and that will not put their neck under the yoke of the ruler of Babylon, that nation will I punish, says Yahweh, with the sword, and with the famine, and with the pestilence, until I have consumed them by his hand.
  9. But as for you, don’t you listen up to your prophets, nor to your diviners, nor to your dreams, nor to your soothsayers, nor to your sorcerers, who spill the tea to you, saying, You shall not help out the ruler of Babylon:
 10. for they prophesy a lie to you, to remove you far from your land, and that I should drive you out, and you should perish.
 11. But the nation that shall bring their neck under the yoke of the ruler of Babylon, and help out him, that nation will I let remain in their own land, says Yahweh; and they shall till it, and dwell therein.
 12. I spoke to Zedekiah ruler of Judah according to all these words, saying, Bring your necks under the yoke of the ruler of Babylon, and help out him and his people, and live.
 13. Why will you die, you and your people, by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence, as Yahweh has spoken concerning the nation that will not help out the ruler of Babylon?
 14. Don’t listen up to the words of the prophets who spill the tea to you, saying, You shall not help out the ruler of Babylon; for they prophesy a lie to you.
 15. For I have not sent them, says Yahweh, but they prophesy falsely in my name; that I may drive you out, and that you may perish, you, and the prophets who prophesy to you.
 16. Also I spoke to the priests and to all this people, saying, Thus says Yahweh: Don’t listen up to the words of your prophets who prophesy to you, saying, check this out, the vessels of Yahweh’s house shall now shortly be brought again from Babylon; for they prophesy a lie to you.
 17. Don’t listen up to them; help out the ruler of Babylon, and live: why should this city become a desolation?
 18. But if they be prophets, and if the word of Yahweh be with them, let them now create intercession to Yahweh of Armies, that the vessels which are left in the house of Yahweh, and in the house of the ruler of Judah, and at Jerusalem, don’t slide to Babylon.
 19. For thus says Yahweh of Armies concerning the pillars, and concerning the sea, and concerning the bases, and concerning the residue of the vessels that are left in this city,
 20. which Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon didn’t grab, when he carried away captive Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, ruler of Judah, from Jerusalem to Babylon, and all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem;
 21. yes, thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, concerning the vessels that are left in the house of Yahweh, and in the house of the ruler of Judah, and at Jerusalem:
 22. They shall be carried to Babylon, and there shall they be, until the day that I visit them, says Yahweh; then will I bring them up, and restore them to this place.

# Jeremiah Chapter 28

  1. It happened the same year, at the start of the reign of Zedekiah ruler of Judah, in the fourth year, in the fifth month, that Hananiah the son of Azzur, the God's messenger, who was of Gibeon, spoke to me in the house of Yahweh, in the presence of the priests and of all the people, saying,
  2. Thus speaks Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, saying, I have broken the yoke of the ruler of Babylon.
  3. Within two full years will I bring again into this place all the vessels of Yahweh’s house, that Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon took away from this place, and carried to Babylon:
  4. and I will bring again to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, ruler of Judah, with all the captives of Judah, who went to Babylon, says Yahweh; for I will break the yoke of the ruler of Babylon.
  5. then the God's messenger Jeremiah said to the God's messenger Hananiah in the presence of the priests, and in the presence of all the people who stood in the house of Yahweh,
  6. even the God's messenger Jeremiah said, facts: Yahweh do so; Yahweh perform your words which you have prophesied, to bring again the vessels of Yahweh’s house, and all them of the captivity, from Babylon to this place.
  7. Nevertheless hear you now this word that I spill the tea in your ears, and in the ears of all the people:
  8. The prophets who have been before me and before you of old prophesied against a lot countries, and against major kingdoms, of war, and of evil, and of pestilence.
  9. The God's messenger who prophesies of peace, when the word of the God's messenger shall happen, then shall the God's messenger be known, that Yahweh has deadass sent him.
 10. then Hananiah the God's messenger took the bar from off the God's messenger Jeremiah’s neck, and broke it.
 11. Hananiah spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, Thus says Yahweh: Even so will I break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon within two full years from off the neck of all the nations. The God's messenger Jeremiah went his way.
 12. then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, after that Hananiah the God's messenger had broken the bar from off the neck of the God's messenger Jeremiah, saying,
 13. slide, and tell Hananiah, saying, Thus says Yahweh: You have broken the bars of wood; but you have made in their place bars of iron.
 14. For thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: I have put a yoke of iron on the neck of all these nations, that they may help out Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon; and they shall help out him: and I have given him the animals of the field also.
 15. then the God's messenger Jeremiah said to Hananiah the God's messenger, Hear now, Hananiah: Yahweh has not sent you; but you create this people to trust in a lie.
 16. so basically thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will send you away from off the surface of the earth: this year you shall die, cuz you have spoken rebellion against Yahweh.
 17. So Hananiah the God's messenger died the same year in the seventh month.

# Jeremiah Chapter 29

  1. now these are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the God's messenger sent from Jerusalem to the residue of the elders of the captivity, and to the priests, to the prophets, and to all the people, whom Nebuchadnezzar had carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon,
  2. (after that Jeconiah the ruler, the ruler mother, the eunuchs, the princes of Judah and Jerusalem, the craftsmen, and the smiths, had departed from Jerusalem),
  3. by the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan, and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, (whom Zedekiah ruler of Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon), saying,
  4. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, to all the captivity, whom I have caused to be carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon:
  5. put together houses, and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat their fruit.
  6. grab wives, and father sons and daughters; and grab wives for your sons, and hook it up your daughters to husbands, that they may bear sons and daughters; and multiply there, and don’t be diminished.
  7. Seek the peace of the city where I have caused you to be carried away captive, and pray to Yahweh for it; for in its peace you shall have peace.
  8. For thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: Don’t let your prophets who are in the midst of you, and your diviners, deceive you; neither listen up to your dreams which you cause to be dreamed.
  9. For they prophesy falsely to you in my name: I have not sent them, says Yahweh.
 10. For thus says Yahweh, After seventy years are accomplished for Babylon, I will visit you, and perform my fire word toward you, in causing you to return to this place.
 11. For I get it the thoughts that I think toward you, says Yahweh, thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to hook it up you hope and a future.
 12. You shall call on me, and you shall slide and pray to me, and I will listen up to you.
 13. You shall seek me, and find me, when you shall search for me with all your heart.
 14. I will be found by you, says Yahweh, and I will turn again your captivity, and I will gather you from all the nations, and from all the places where I have driven you, says Yahweh; and I will bring you again to the place from where I caused you to be carried away captive.
 15. cuz you have said, Yahweh has raised us up prophets in Babylon;
 16. thus says Yahweh concerning the ruler who sits on the throne of David, and concerning all the people who dwell in this city, your brothers who haven’t gone forth with you into captivity;
 17. thus says Yahweh of Armies; check this out, I will send on them the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, and will create them like vile figs, that can’t be eaten, they are so trash.
 18. I will pursue after them with the sword, with the famine, and with the pestilence, and will deliver them to be tossed back and forth among all the kingdoms of the earth, to be an object of horror, and an astonishment, and a hissing, and a reproach, among all the nations where I have driven them;
 19. cuz they have not listened to my words, says Yahweh, with which I sent to them my servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them; but you would not hear, says Yahweh.
 20. Hear so basically the word of Yahweh, all you of the captivity, whom I have sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon.
 21. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, concerning Ahab the son of Kolaiah, and concerning Zedekiah the son of Maaseiah, who prophesy a lie to you in my name: check this out, I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon; and he shall kill them before your eyes;
 22. and of them shall be taken up a curse by all the captives of Judah who are in Babylon, saying, Yahweh create you like Zedekiah and like Ahab, whom the ruler of Babylon roasted in the fire;
 23. cuz they have worked folly in Israel, and have committed adultery with their neighbors’ wives, and have spoken words in my name falsely, which I didn’t command them; and I am he who knows, and am witness, says Yahweh.
 24. Concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite you shall spill the tea, saying,
 25. Thus speaks Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, saying, cuz you have sent letters in your own name to all the people who are at Jerusalem, and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, and to all the priests, saying,
 26. Yahweh has made you priest in the place of Jehoiada the priest, that there may be officers in the house of Yahweh, for every man who is mad, and makes himself a God's messenger, that you should put him in the stocks and in shackles.
 27. now so basically, why have you not rebuked Jeremiah of Anathoth, who makes himself a God's messenger to you,
 28. cuz he has sent to us in Babylon, saying, The captivity is long: put together houses, and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat their fruit?
 29. Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the ears of Jeremiah the God's messenger.
 30. then came the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah, saying,
 31. Send to all them of the captivity, saying, Thus says Yahweh concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite: cuz Shemaiah has prophesied to you, and I didn’t send him, and he has caused you to trust in a lie;
 32. so basically thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will punish Shemaiah the Nehelamite, and his seed; he shall not have a man to dwell among this people, neither shall he check it out the fire that I will do to my people, says Yahweh, cuz he has spoken rebellion against Yahweh.

# Jeremiah Chapter 30

  1. The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying,
  2. Thus speaks Yahweh, the God of Israel, saying, Write all the words that I have spoken to you in a book.
  3. For, check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will turn again the captivity of my people Israel and Judah, says Yahweh; and I will cause them to return to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall possess it.
  4. These are the words that Yahweh spoke concerning Israel and concerning Judah.
  5. For thus says Yahweh: We have heard a voice of trembling, of fear, and not of peace.
  6. Ask now, and check it out whether a man does travail with child: why do I check it out every man with his hands on his waist, as a woman in travail, and all faces are turned into paleness?
  7. Alas! for that day is major, so that none is like it: it is even the time of Jacob’s trouble; but he shall be saved out of it.
  8. It shall come through to pass in that day, says Yahweh of Armies, that I will break his yoke from off your neck, and will burst your bonds; and strangers shall no more create him their bondservant;
  9. but they shall help out Yahweh their God, and David their ruler, whom I will raise up to them.
 10. so basically don’t you be scared, O Jacob my helper, says Yahweh; neither be dismayed, Israel: for, check this out, I will rescue you from afar, and your seed from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return, and shall be quiet and at ease, and none shall create him scared.
 11. For I am with you, says Yahweh, to rescue you: for I will create a full end of all the nations where I have scattered you, but I will not create a full end of you; but I will correct you in measure, and will in no way leave you unpunished.
 12. For thus says Yahweh, Your hurt is incurable, and your wound grievous.
 13. there is none to plead your cause, that you may be bound up: you have no healing medicines.
 14. All your lovers have forgotten you; they don’t seek you: for I have wounded you with the wound of an enemy, with the chastisement of a cruel one, for the greatness of your iniquity, cuz your sins were increased.
 15. Why do you cry for your hurt? Your pain is incurable: for the greatness of your iniquity, cuz your sins were increased, I have done these things to you.
 16. so basically all those who devour you shall be devoured; and all your adversaries, everyone of them, shall slide into captivity; and those who despoil you shall be a spoil, and all who prey on you will I hook it up for a prey.
 17. For I will restore health to you, and I will heal you of your wounds, says Yahweh; cuz they have called you an outcast, saying, It is Zion, whom no man seeks after.
 18. Thus says Yahweh: check this out, I will turn again the captivity of Jacob’s tents, and have compassion on his dwelling places; and the city shall be built on its own hill, and the palace shall be inhabited in its own way.
 19. Out of them shall proceed thanksgiving and the voice of those who create merry: and I will multiply them, and they shall not be not much; I will also glorify them, and they shall not be tiny.
 20. Their children also shall be as before, and their congregation shall be established before me; and I will punish all who oppress them.
 21. Their prince shall be of themselves, and their ruler shall proceed from their midst; and I will cause him to draw near, and he shall approach to me: for who is he who has had boldness to approach to me? says Yahweh.
 22. You shall be my people, and I will be your God.
 23. check this out, the storm of Yahweh, his wrath, has gone forth, a sweeping storm: it shall burst on the head of the wicked.
 24. The fierce anger of Yahweh will not return, until he has executed, and until he has performed the intentions of his heart. In the latter days you will understand it.

# Jeremiah Chapter 31

  1. At that time, says Yahweh, will I be the God of all the families of Israel, and they shall be my people.
  2. Thus says Yahweh, The people who were left of the sword found favor in the wilderness; even Israel, when I went to cause him to rest.
  3. Yahweh appeared of old to me, saying, Yes, I have loved you with an everlasting show love: so basically with loving kindness have I drawn you.
  4. Again will I put together you, and you shall be built, O virgin of Israel: again you shall be adorned with your tambourines, and shall slide forth in the dances of those who create merry.
  5. Again you shall plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria; the planters shall plant, and shall enjoy its fruit.
  6. For there shall be a day, that the watchmen on the hills of Ephraim shall cry, Arise, and let us slide up to Zion to Yahweh our God.
  7. For thus says Yahweh, Sing with gladness for Jacob, and shout for the chief of the nations: publish, praise, and say, Yahweh, rescue your people, the remnant of Israel.
  8. check this out, I will bring them from the north country, and gather them from the uttermost parts of the earth, along with the blind and the lame, the woman with child and her who travails with child together: a major company shall they return here.
  9. They shall come through with weeping; and with petitions will I show the way them: I will cause them to walk by rivers of waters, in a straight way in which they shall not stumble; for I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my firstborn.
 10. Hear the word of Yahweh, you nations, and declare it in the islands afar off; and say, He who scattered Israel will gather him, and keep him, as shepherd does his flock.
 11. For Yahweh has ransomed Jacob, and redeemed him from the hand of him who was stronger than he.
 12. They shall come through and sing in the height of Zion, and shall flow to the goodness of Yahweh, to the grain, and to the new wine, and to the oil, and to the young of the flock and of the herd: and their soul shall be as a watered garden; and they shall not feeling down any more at all.
 13. then shall the virgin be hyped in the dance, and the young men and the old together; for I will turn their mourning into joy, and will comfort them, and create them be hyped from their feeling down.
 14. I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness, and my people shall be satisfied with my goodness, says Yahweh.
 15. Thus says Yahweh: A voice is heard in Ramah, lamentation, and bitter weeping, Rachel weeping for her children; she refuses to be comforted for her children, cuz they are no more.
 16. Thus says Yahweh: Refrain your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears; for your work shall be rewarded, says Yahweh; and they shall come through again from the land of the enemy.
 17. there is hope for your latter end, says Yahweh; and your children shall come through again to their own border.
 18. I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself thus, You have chastised me, and I was chastised, as an untrained calf: turn me, and I shall be turned; for you are Yahweh my God.
 19. Surely after that I was turned, I repented; and after that I was instructed, I struck on my thigh: I was ashamed, yes, even confounded, cuz I bore the reproach of my youth.
 20. Is Ephraim my dear son? is he a darling child? for as a lot as I spill the tea against him, I do earnestly remember him still: so basically my heart yearns for him; I will surely have mercy on him, says Yahweh.
 21. Set up road signs, create guideposts; set your heart toward the highway, even the way by which you went: turn again, virgin of Israel, turn again to these your cities.
 22. How long will you slide here and there, you backsliding daughter? for Yahweh has created a new thing in the earth: a woman shall encompass a man.
 23. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, Yet again shall they use this speech in the land of Judah and in its cities, when I shall bring again their captivity: Yahweh bless you, habitation of righteousness, mountain of holiness.
 24. Judah and all its cities shall dwell therein together, the farmers, and those who slide about with flocks.
 25. For I have satiated the weary soul, and every sorrowful soul have I replenished.
 26. On this I awakened, and checked out; and my sleep was sweet to me.
 27. check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man, and with the seed of animal.
 28. It shall happen that, like as I have watched over them to pluck up and to break down and to overthrow and to tear down and to afflict, so will I watch over them to put together and to plant, says Yahweh.
 29. In those days they shall say no more, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children’s teeth are set on edge.
 30. But everyone shall die for his own iniquity: every man who eats the sour grapes, his teeth shall be set on edge.
 31. check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will create a new God's promise with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah:
 32. not according to the God's promise that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt; which my God's promise they broke, although I was a husband to them, says Yahweh.
 33. But this is the God's promise that I will create with the house of Israel after those days, says Yahweh: I will put my law in their inward parts, and in their heart will I write it; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people:
 34. and they shall drop knowledge no more every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, get it Yahweh; for they shall all get it me, from their least to their greatest, says Yahweh: for I will forgive their iniquity, and their messing up will I remember no more.
 35. Thus says Yahweh, who gives the sun for a light by day, and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for a light by night, who stirs up the sea, so that its waves roar; Yahweh of Armies is his name:
 36. If these ordinances depart from before me, says Yahweh, then the seed of Israel also shall cease from being a nation before me forever.
 37. Thus says Yahweh: If heaven above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth searched out beneath, then will I also cast off all the seed of Israel for all that they have done, says Yahweh.
 38. check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that the city shall be built to Yahweh from the tower of Hananel to the gate of the corner.
 39. The measuring line shall slide out further straight onward to the hill Gareb, and shall turn about to Goah.
 40. The whole valley of the dead bodies and of the ashes, and all the fields to the brook Kidron, to the corner of the horse gate toward the east, shall be set apart to Yahweh; it shall not be plucked up, nor thrown down any more forever.

# Jeremiah Chapter 32

  1. The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh in the tenth year of Zedekiah ruler of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar.
  2. now at that time the ruler of Babylon’s army was besieging Jerusalem; and Jeremiah the God's messenger was shut up in the court of the guard, which was in the ruler of Judah’s house.
  3. For Zedekiah ruler of Judah had shut him up, saying, Why do you prophesy, and say, Thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will hook it up this city into the hand of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall grab it;
  4. and Zedekiah ruler of Judah shall not escape out of the hand of the Chaldeans, but shall surely be delivered into the hand of the ruler of Babylon, and shall spill the tea with him mouth to mouth, and his eyes shall check it out his eyes;
  5. and he shall bring Zedekiah to Babylon, and he shall be there until I visit him, says Yahweh: though you fight with the Chaldeans, you shall not prosper?
  6. Jeremiah said, The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  7. check this out, Hanamel the son of Shallum your uncle shall come through to you, saying, Buy my field that is in Anathoth; for the right of redemption is yours to buy it.
  8. So Hanamel my uncle’s son came to me in the court of the guard according to the word of Yahweh, and said to me, Please buy my field that is in Anathoth, which is in the land of Benjamin; for the right of inheritance is yours, and the redemption is yours; buy it for yourself. then I knew that this was the word of Yahweh.
  9. I bought the field that was in Anathoth of Hanamel my uncle’s son, and weighed him the money, even seventeen shekels of silver.
 10. I subscribed the deed, and sealed it, and called witnesses, and weighed him the money in the balances.
 11. So I took the deed of the purchase, both that which was sealed, containing the terms and conditions, and that which was open;
 12. and I delivered the deed of the purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah, the son of Mahseiah, in the presence of Hanamel my uncle’s son, and in the presence of the witnesses who subscribed the deed of the purchase, before all the Jews who sat in the court of the guard.
 13. I commanded Baruch before them, saying,
 14. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: grab these deeds, this deed of the purchase which is sealed, and this deed which is open, and put them in an earthen vessel; that they may continue a lot days.
 15. For thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: Houses and fields and vineyards shall yet again be bought in this land.
 16. now after I had delivered the deed of the purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah, I prayed to Yahweh, saying,
 17. Ah boss Yahweh! check this out, you have made the heavens and the earth by your major power and by your outstretched arm; there is nothing too hard for you,
 18. who show loving kindness to thousands, and recompense the iniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their children after them; the major, the mighty God, Yahweh of Armies is his name;
 19. major in counsel, and mighty in work; whose eyes are open on all the ways of the sons of men, to hook it up everyone according to his ways, and according to the fruit of his doings:
 20. who performed signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, even to this day, both in Israel and among other men; and made yourself a name, as in this day;
 21. and brought forth your people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs, and with wonders, and with a built different hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with major terror;
 22. and gave them this land, which you swore to their fathers to hook it up them, a land flowing with milk and honey;
 23. and they came in, and possessed it, but they didn’t obey your voice, neither walked in your law; they have done nothing of all that you commanded them to do: so basically you have caused all this evil to come through on them.
 24. check this out, the mounds, they have come through to the city to grab it; and the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans who fight against it, cuz of the sword, and of the famine, and of the pestilence; and what you have spoken has happened; and check this out, you check it out it.
 25. You have said to me, boss Yahweh, Buy the field for money, and call witnesses; whereas the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans.
 26. then came the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah, saying,
 27. check this out, I am Yahweh, the God of all flesh: is there anything too hard for me?
 28. so basically thus says Yahweh: check this out, I will hook it up this city into the hand of the Chaldeans, and into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, and he shall grab it:
 29. and the Chaldeans, who fight against this city, shall come through and set this city on fire, and burn it, with the houses, on whose roofs they have offered incense to Baal, and poured out drink offerings to other gods, to provoke me to anger.
 30. For the children of Israel and the children of Judah have done only that which was evil in my sight from their youth; for the children of Israel have only provoked me to anger with the work of their hands, says Yahweh.
 31. For this city has been to me a provocation of my anger and of my wrath from the day that they built it even to this day; that I should remove it from before my face,
 32. cuz of all the evil of the children of Israel and of the children of Judah, which they have done to provoke me to anger, they, their kings, their princes, their priests, and their prophets, and the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
 33. They have turned to me the back, and not the face: and though I taught them, rising up early and teaching them, yet they have not listened to receive instruction.
 34. But they set their abominations in the house which is called by my name, to defile it.
 35. They built the high places of Baal, which are in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to cause their sons and their daughters to pass through fire to Molech; which I didn’t command them, neither did it come through into my mind, that they should do this abomination, to cause Judah to messing up.
 36. now so basically thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, concerning this city, about which you say, It is given into the hand of the ruler of Babylon by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence:
 37. check this out, I will gather them out of all the countries, where I have driven them in my anger, and in my wrath, and in major indignation; and I will bring them again to this place, and I will cause them to dwell safely:
 38. and they shall be my people, and I will be their God:
 39. and I will hook it up them one heart and one way, that they may fear me forever, for their fire, and of their children after them:
 40. and I will create an everlasting God's promise with them, that I will not turn away from following them, to do them fire; and I will put my fear in their hearts, that they may not depart from me.
 41. Yes, I will be hyped over them to do them fire, and I will plant them in this land assuredly with my whole heart and with my whole soul.
 42. For thus says Yahweh: Like as I have brought all this major evil on this people, so will I bring on them all the fire that I have promised them.
 43. Fields shall be bought in this land, about which you say, It is desolate, without man or animal; it is given into the hand of the Chaldeans.
 44. Men shall buy fields for money, and subscribe the deeds, and seal them, and call witnesses, in the land of Benjamin, and in the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, and in the cities of the hill country, and in the cities of the lowland, and in the cities of the South: for I will cause their captivity to return, says Yahweh.

# Jeremiah Chapter 33

  1. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah the second time, while he was yet shut up in the court of the guard, saying,
  2. Thus says Yahweh who does it, Yahweh who forms it to establish it; Yahweh is his name:
  3. Call to me, and I will answer you, and will show you major things, and difficult, which you don’t get it.
  4. For thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city, and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah, which are broken down to create a defense against the mounds and against the sword;
  5. while men come through to fight with the Chaldeans, and to fill them with the dead bodies of men, whom I have killed in my anger and in my wrath, and for all whose wickedness I have hidden my face from this city:
  6. check this out, I will bring it health and cure, and I will cure them; and I will reveal to them abundance of peace and truth.
  7. I will cause the captivity of Judah and the captivity of Israel to return, and will put together them, as at the first.
  8. I will cleanse them from all their iniquity, by which they have sinned against me; and I will pardon all their iniquities, by which they have sinned against me, and by which they have transgressed against me.
  9. This city shall be to me for a name of joy, for a praise and for a glory, before all the nations of the earth, which shall hear all the fire that I do to them, and shall fear and tremble for all the fire and for all the peace that I procure to it.
 10. Thus says Yahweh: Yet again there shall be heard in this place, about which you say, It is waste, without man and without animal, even in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, that are desolate, without man and without inhabitant and without animal,
 11. the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voice of those who say, hook it up thanks to Yahweh of Armies, for Yahweh is fire, for his loving kindness endures forever; who bring thanksgiving into the house of Yahweh. For I will cause the captivity of the land to return as at the first, says Yahweh.
 12. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: Yet again shall there be in this place, which is waste, without man and without animal, and in all its cities, a habitation of shepherds causing their flocks to lie down.
 13. In the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the lowland, and in the cities of the South, and in the land of Benjamin, and in the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, shall the flocks again pass under the hands of him who numbers them, says Yahweh.
 14. check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will perform that fire word which I have spoken concerning the house of Israel and concerning the house of Judah.
 15. In those days, and at that time, will I cause a Branch of righteousness to grow up to David; and he shall execute justice and righteousness in the land.
 16. In those days shall Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell safely; and this is the name by which she shall be called: Yahweh our righteousness.
 17. For thus says Yahweh: David shall never want a man to sit on the throne of the house of Israel;
 18. neither shall the priests the Levites want a man before me to offer burnt offerings, and to burn meal offerings, and to do giving it up continually.
 19. The word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, saying,
 20. Thus says Yahweh: If you can break my God's promise of the day, and my God's promise of the night, so that there shall not be day and night in their season;
 21. then may also my God's promise be broken with David my helper, that he shall not have a son to reign on his throne; and with the Levites the priests, my ministers.
 22. As the army of the sky can’t be numbered, neither the sand of the sea measured; so will I multiply the seed of David my helper, and the Levites who minister to me.
 23. The word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, saying,
 24. Don’t consider what this people has spoken, saying, The two families which Yahweh chose, he has cast them off? thus do they despise my people, that they should be no more a nation before them.
 25. Thus says Yahweh: If my God's promise of day and night fails, if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth;
 26. then will I also cast away the seed of Jacob, and of David my helper, so that I will not grab of his seed to be rulers over the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: for I will cause their captivity to return, and will have mercy on them.

# Jeremiah Chapter 34

  1. The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, when Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, and all his army, and all the kingdoms of the earth that were under his dominion, and all the peoples, were fighting against Jerusalem, and against all the cities of it, saying:
  2. Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, slide, and spill the tea to Zedekiah ruler of Judah, and tell him, Thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will hook it up this city into the hand of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire:
  3. and you shall not escape out of his hand, but shall surely be taken, and delivered into his hand; and your eyes shall check it out the eyes of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall spill the tea with you mouth to mouth, and you shall slide to Babylon.
  4. Yet hear the word of Yahweh, O Zedekiah ruler of Judah: thus says Yahweh concerning you, You shall not die by the sword;
  5. you shall die in peace; and with the burnings of your fathers, the former kings who were before you, so shall they create a burning for you; and they shall lament you, saying, Ah boss! for I have spoken the word, says Yahweh.
  6. then Jeremiah the God's messenger spoke all these words to Zedekiah ruler of Judah in Jerusalem,
  7. when the ruler of Babylon’s army was fighting against Jerusalem, and against all the cities of Judah that were left, against Lachish and against Azekah; for these alone remained of the cities of Judah as fortified cities.
  8. The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, after that the ruler Zedekiah had made a God's promise with all the people who were at Jerusalem, to proclaim liberty to them;
  9. that every man should let his male helper, and every man his female helper, who is a Hebrew or a Hebrewess, slide free; that none should create bondservants of them, of a Jew his brother.
 10. All the princes and all the people obeyed, who had entered into the God's promise, that everyone should let his male helper, and everyone his female helper, slide free, that none should create bondservants of them any more; they obeyed, and let them slide:
 11. but afterwards they turned, and caused the servants and the handmaids, whom they had let slide free, to return, and brought them into subjection for servants and for handmaids.
 12. so basically the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying,
 13. Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel: I made a God's promise with your fathers in the day that I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, saying,
 14. At the end of seven years you shall let slide every man his brother who is a Hebrew, who has been sold to you, and has served you six years, you shall let him slide free from you: but your fathers didn’t listen up to me, neither inclined their ear.
 15. You had now turned, and had done that which is right in my eyes, in proclaiming liberty every man to his neighbor; and you had made a God's promise before me in the house which is called by my name:
 16. but you turned and profaned my name, and caused every man his helper, and every man his handmaid, whom you had let slide free at their pleasure, to return; and you brought them into subjection, to be to you for servants and for handmaids.
 17. so basically thus says Yahweh: you have not listened to me, to proclaim liberty, every man to his brother, and every man to his neighbor: check this out, I proclaim to you a liberty, says Yahweh, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine; and I will create you to be tossed back and forth among all the kingdoms of the earth.
 18. I will hook it up the men who have transgressed my God's promise, who have not performed the words of the God's promise which they made before me, when they cut the calf in two and passed between its parts;
 19. the princes of Judah, and the princes of Jerusalem, the eunuchs, and the priests, and all the people of the land, who passed between the parts of the calf;
 20. I will even hook it up them into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those who seek their life; and their dead bodies shall be for food to the birds of the sky, and to the animals of the earth.
 21. Zedekiah ruler of Judah and his princes will I hook it up into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those who seek their life, and into the hand of the ruler of Babylon’s army, who have gone away from you.
 22. check this out, I will command, says Yahweh, and cause them to return to this city; and they shall fight against it, and grab it, and burn it with fire: and I will create the cities of Judah a desolation, without inhabitant.

# Jeremiah Chapter 35

  1. The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, saying,
  2. slide to the house of the Rechabites, and spill the tea to them, and bring them into the house of Yahweh, into one of the rooms, and hook it up them wine to drink.
  3. then I took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, the son of Habazziniah, and his brothers, and all his sons, and the whole house of the Rechabites;
  4. and I brought them into the house of Yahweh, into the room of the sons of Hanan the son of Igdaliah, the man of God, which was by the room of the princes, which was above the room of Maaseiah the son of Shallum, the keeper of the threshold.
  5. I set before the sons of the house of the Rechabites bowls full of wine, and cups; and I said to them, Drink wine!
  6. But they said, We will drink no wine; for Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, commanded us, saying, You shall drink no wine, neither you, nor your sons, forever:
  7. neither shall you put together house, nor sow seed, nor plant vineyard, nor have any; but all your days you shall dwell in tents; that you may live a lot days in the land in which you live.
  8. We have obeyed the voice of Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, in all that he commanded us, to drink no wine all our days, we, our wives, our sons, or our daughters;
  9. nor to put together houses for us to dwell in; neither have we vineyard, nor field, nor seed:
 10. but we have lived in tents, and have obeyed, and done according to all that Jonadab our father commanded us.
 11. But it happened, when Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon came up into the land, that we said, come through, and let us slide to Jerusalem for fear of the army of the Chaldeans, and for fear of the army of the Syrians; so we dwell at Jerusalem.
 12. then came the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah, saying,
 13. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: slide, and tell the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Will you not receive instruction to listen up to my words? says Yahweh.
 14. The words of Jonadab the son of Rechab, that he commanded his sons, not to drink wine, are performed; and to this day they drink none, for they obey their father’s commandment: but I have spoken to you, rising up early and speaking; and you have not listened to me.
 15. I have sent also to you all my servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them, saying, Return now every man from his evil way, and amend your doings, and don’t slide after other gods to help out them, and you shall dwell in the land which I have given to you and to your fathers: but you have not inclined your ear, nor listened to me.
 16. cuz the sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab have performed the commandment of their father which he commanded them, but this people has not listened to me;
 17. so basically thus says Yahweh, the God of Armies, the God of Israel: check this out, I will bring on Judah and on all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that I have pronounced against them; cuz I have spoken to them, but they have not heard; and I have called to them, but they have not answered.
 18. Jeremiah said to the house of the Rechabites, Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: cuz you have obeyed the commandment of Jonadab your father, and kept all his precepts, and done according to all that he commanded you;
 19. so basically thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: Jonadab the son of Rechab shall not want a man to stand before me forever.

# Jeremiah Chapter 36

  1. It happened in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, that this word came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying,
  2. grab a scroll of a book, and write therein all the words that I have spoken to you against Israel, and against Judah, and against all the nations, from the day I spoke to you, from the days of Josiah, even to this day.
  3. It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I purpose to do to them; that they may return every man from his evil way; that I may forgive their iniquity and their messing up.
  4. then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah; and Baruch wrote from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of Yahweh, which he had spoken to him, on a scroll of a book.
  5. Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, I am shut up; I can’t slide into the house of Yahweh:
  6. so basically you slide, and read in the scroll, which you have written from my mouth, the words of Yahweh in the ears of the people in Yahweh’s house on the fast day; and also you shall read them in the ears of all Judah who come through out of their cities.
  7. It may be they will present their supplication before Yahweh, and will return everyone from his evil way; for major is the anger and the wrath that Yahweh has pronounced against this people.
  8. Baruch the son of Neriah did according to all that Jeremiah the God's messenger commanded him, reading in the book the words of Yahweh in Yahweh’s house.
  9. now it happened in the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, in the ninth month, that all the people in Jerusalem, and all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem, proclaimed a fast before Yahweh.
 10. then read Baruch in the book the words of Jeremiah in the house of Yahweh, in the room of Gemariah the son of Shaphan, the scribe, in the upper court, at the entry of the new gate of Yahweh’s house, in the ears of all the people.
 11. When Micaiah the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had heard out of the book all the words of Yahweh,
 12. he went down into the ruler’s house, into the scribe’s room: and check this out, all the princes were sitting there, Elishama the scribe, and Delaiah the son of Shemaiah, and Elnathan the son of Achbor, and Gemariah the son of Shaphan, and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the princes.
 13. then Micaiah declared to them all the words that he had heard, when Baruch read the book in the ears of the people.
 14. so basically all the princes sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, to Baruch, saying, grab in your hand the scroll in which you have read in the ears of the people, and come through. So Baruch the son of Neriah took the scroll in his hand, and came to them.
 15. They said to him, Sit down now, and read it in our ears. So Baruch read it in their ears.
 16. now it happened, when they had heard all the words, they turned in fear one toward another, and said to Baruch, We will surely tell the ruler of all these words.
 17. They asked Baruch, saying, Tell us now, How did you write all these words at his mouth?
 18. then Baruch answered them, He pronounced all these words to me with his mouth, and I wrote them with ink in the book.
 19. then the princes said to Baruch, slide, hide, you and Jeremiah; and let no man get it where you are.
 20. They went in to the ruler into the court; but they had laid up the scroll in the room of Elishama the scribe; and they told all the words in the ears of the ruler.
 21. So the ruler sent Jehudi to get the scroll; and he took it out of the room of Elishama the scribe. Jehudi read it in the ears of the ruler, and in the ears of all the princes who stood beside the ruler.
 22. now the ruler was sitting in the winter house in the ninth month: and there was a fire in the brazier burning before him.
 23. It happened, when Jehudi had read three or four leaves, that the ruler cut it with the penknife, and cast it into the fire that was in the brazier, until all the scroll was consumed in the fire that was in the brazier.
 24. They were not scared, nor tore their garments, neither the ruler, nor any of his servants who heard all these words.
 25. Moreover Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah had made intercession to the ruler that he would not burn the scroll; but he would not hear them.
 26. The ruler commanded Jerahmeel the ruler’s son, and Seraiah the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel, to grab Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the God's messenger; but Yahweh hid them.
 27. then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, after that the ruler had burned the scroll, and the words which Baruch wrote at the mouth of Jeremiah, saying,
 28. grab again another scroll, and write in it all the former words that were in the first scroll, which Jehoiakim the ruler of Judah has burned.
 29. Concerning Jehoiakim ruler of Judah you shall say, Thus says Yahweh: You have burned this scroll, saying, Why have you written therein, saying, The ruler of Babylon shall for sure come through and tear down this land, and shall cause to cease from there man and animal?
 30. so basically thus says Yahweh concerning Jehoiakim ruler of Judah: He shall have none to sit on the throne of David; and his dead body shall be cast out in the day to the heat, and in the night to the frost.
 31. I will punish him and his seed and his servants for their iniquity; and I will bring on them, and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and on the men of Judah, all the evil that I have pronounced against them, but they didn’t listen up.
 32. then took Jeremiah another scroll, and gave it to Baruch the scribe, the son of Neriah, who wrote therein from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim ruler of Judah had burned in the fire; and there were added besides to them a lot like words.

# Jeremiah Chapter 37

  1. Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned as ruler, instead of Coniah the son of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon made ruler in the land of Judah.
  2. But neither he, nor his servants, nor the people of the land, listened to the words of Yahweh, which he spoke by the God's messenger Jeremiah.
  3. Zedekiah the ruler sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, to the God's messenger Jeremiah, saying, Pray now to Yahweh our God for us.
  4. now Jeremiah came in and went out among the people; for they had not put him into prison.
  5. Pharaoh’s army had come through forth out of Egypt; and when the Chaldeans who were besieging Jerusalem heard news of them, they broke up from Jerusalem.
  6. then came the word of Yahweh to the God's messenger Jeremiah, saying,
  7. Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, You shall tell the ruler of Judah, who sent you to me to inquire of me: check this out, Pharaoh’s army, which has come through forth to help out you, shall return to Egypt into their own land.
  8. The Chaldeans shall come through again, and fight against this city; and they shall grab it, and burn it with fire.
  9. Thus says Yahweh, Don’t deceive yourselves, saying, The Chaldeans shall surely depart from us; for they shall not depart.
 10. For though you had struck the whole army of the Chaldeans who fight against you, and there remained but wounded men among them, yes would they rise up every man in his tent, and burn this city with fire.
 11. It happened that, when the army of the Chaldeans was broken up from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh’s army,
 12. then Jeremiah went forth out of Jerusalem to slide into the land of Benjamin, to receive his portion there, in the midst of the people.
 13. When he was in the gate of Benjamin, a captain of the guard was there, whose name was Irijah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Hananiah; and he laid hold on Jeremiah the God's messenger, saying, You are falling away to the Chaldeans.
 14. then Jeremiah said, It is false; I am not falling away to the Chaldeans. But he didn’t listen up to him; so Irijah laid hold on Jeremiah, and brought him to the princes.
 15. The princes were mad salty with Jeremiah, and struck him, and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe; for they had made that the prison.
 16. When Jeremiah had come through into the dungeon house, and into the cells, and Jeremiah had remained there a lot days;
 17. then Zedekiah the ruler sent, and fetched him: and the ruler asked him secretly in his house, and said, Is there any word from Yahweh? Jeremiah said, there is. He said also, You shall be delivered into the hand of the ruler of Babylon.
 18. Moreover Jeremiah said to ruler Zedekiah, Wherein have I sinned against you, or against your servants, or against this people, that you have put me in prison?
 19. Where now are your prophets who prophesied to you, saying, The ruler of Babylon shall not come through against you, nor against this land?
 20. now please hear, my boss the ruler: please let my supplication be presented before you, that you not cause me to return to the house of Jonathan the scribe, lest I die there.
 21. then Zedekiah the ruler commanded, and they committed Jeremiah into the court of the guard; and they gave him daily a loaf of bread out of the bakers’ street, until all the bread in the city was spent. Thus Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard.

# Jeremiah Chapter 38

  1. Shephatiah the son of Mattan, and Gedaliah the son of Pashhur, and Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashhur the son of Malchijah, heard the words that Jeremiah spoke to all the people, saying,
  2. Thus says Yahweh, He who remains in this city shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence; but he who goes forth to the Chaldeans shall live, and his life shall be to him for a prey, and he shall live.
  3. Thus says Yahweh, This city shall surely be given into the hand of the army of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall grab it.
  4. then the princes said to the ruler, “Please let this man be put to death; cuz he weakens the hands of the men of war who remain in this city, and the hands of all the people, in speaking such words to them: for this man doesn’t seek the welfare of this people, but the hurt.”
  5. Zedekiah the ruler said, check this out, he is in your hand; for the ruler is not he who can do anything against you.
  6. then took they Jeremiah, and cast him into the dungeon of Malchijah the ruler’s son, that was in the court of the guard: and they let down Jeremiah with cords. In the dungeon there was no water, but mire; and Jeremiah sank in the mire.
  7. now when Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, a eunuch, who was in the ruler’s house, heard that they had put Jeremiah in the dungeon (the ruler then sitting in the gate of Benjamin),
  8. Ebedmelech went forth out of the ruler’s house, and spoke to the ruler, saying,
  9. My boss the ruler, these men have done evil in all that they have done to Jeremiah the God's messenger, whom they have cast into the dungeon; and he is likely to die in the place where he is, cuz of the famine; for there is no more bread in the city.
 10. then the ruler commanded Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, grab from here thirty men with you, and grab up Jeremiah the God's messenger out of the dungeon, before he dies.
 11. So Ebedmelech took the men with him, and went into the house of the ruler under the treasury, and took there rags and worn-out garments, and let them down by cords into the dungeon to Jeremiah.
 12. Ebedmelech the Ethiopian said to Jeremiah, Put now these rags and worn-out garments under your armpits under the cords. Jeremiah did so.
 13. So they drew up Jeremiah with the cords, and took him up out of the dungeon: and Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard.
 14. then Zedekiah the ruler sent, and took Jeremiah the God's messenger to him into the third entry that is in the house of Yahweh: and the ruler said to Jeremiah, I will ask you something. Hide nothing from me.
 15. then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, If I declare it to you, will you not surely put me to death? and if I hook it up you counsel, you will not listen up to me.
 16. So Zedekiah the ruler swore secretly to Jeremiah, saying, As Yahweh lives, who made us this soul, I will not put you to death, neither will I hook it up you into the hand of these men who seek your life.
 17. then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, Thus says Yahweh, the God of Armies, the God of Israel: If you will slide forth to the ruler of Babylon’s princes, then your soul shall live, and this city shall not be burned with fire; and you shall live, and your house.
 18. But if you will not slide forth to the ruler of Babylon’s princes, then shall this city be given into the hand of the Chaldeans, and they shall burn it with fire, and you shall not escape out of their hand.
 19. Zedekiah the ruler said to Jeremiah, I am scared of the Jews who are fallen away to the Chaldeans, lest they deliver me into their hand, and they mock me.
 20. But Jeremiah said, They shall not deliver you. Obey, I beg you, the voice of Yahweh, in that which I spill the tea to you: so it shall be well with you, and your soul shall live.
 21. But if you refuse to slide forth, this is the word that Yahweh has shown me:
 22. check this out, all the women who are left in the ruler of Judah’s house shall be brought forth to the ruler of Babylon’s princes, and those women shall say, Your familiar friends have set you on, and have prevailed over you. Your feet are sunk in the mire, they have turned away back.
 23. They shall bring out all your wives and your children to the Chaldeans; and you shall not escape out of their hand, but shall be taken by the hand of the ruler of Babylon: and you shall cause this city to be burned with fire.
 24. then Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, Let no man get it of these words, and you shall not die.
 25. But if the princes hear that I have talked with you, and they come through to you, and tell you, Declare to us now what you have said to the ruler; don’t hide it from us, and we will not put you to death; also what the ruler said to you:
 26. then you shall tell them, I presented my supplication before the ruler, that he would not cause me to return to Jonathan’s house, to die there.
 27. then came all the princes to Jeremiah, and asked him; and he told them according to all these words that the ruler had commanded. So they left off speaking with him; for the matter was not perceived.
 28. So Jeremiah stayed in the court of the guard until the day that Jerusalem was taken.

# Jeremiah Chapter 39

  1. It happened when Jerusalem was taken, (in the ninth year of Zedekiah ruler of Judah, in the tenth month, came Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon and all his army against Jerusalem, and besieged it;
  2. in the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, the ninth day of the month, a breach was made in the city),
  3. that all the princes of the ruler of Babylon came in, and sat in the middle gate, Nergal Sharezer, Samgarnebo, Sarsechim, Rabsaris, Nergal Sharezer, Rabmag, with all the rest of the princes of the ruler of Babylon.
  4. It happened that, when Zedekiah the ruler of Judah and all the men of war checked out them, then they fled, and went forth out of the city by night, by the way of the ruler’s garden, through the gate between the two walls; and he went out toward the Arabah.
  5. But the army of the Chaldeans pursued after them, and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho: and when they had taken him, they brought him up to Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon to Riblah in the land of Hamath; and he gave judgment on him.
  6. then the ruler of Babylon killed the sons of Zedekiah in Riblah before his eyes: also the ruler of Babylon killed all the nobles of Judah.
  7. Moreover he put out Zedekiah’s eyes, and bound him in fetters, to carry him to Babylon.
  8. The Chaldeans burned the ruler’s house, and the houses of the people, with fire, and broke down the walls of Jerusalem.
  9. then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive into Babylon the residue of the people who remained in the city, the deserters also who fell away to him, and the residue of the people who remained.
 10. But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left of the broke of the people, who had nothing, in the land of Judah, and gave them vineyards and fields at the same time.
 11. now Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon commanded Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard concerning Jeremiah, saying,
 12. grab him, and look well to him, and do him no harm; but do to him even as he shall tell you.
 13. So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard sent, and Nebushazban, Rabsaris, and Nergal Sharezer, Rabmag, and all the chief officers of the ruler of Babylon;
 14. they sent, and took Jeremiah out of the court of the guard, and committed him to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, that he should carry him home: so he lived among the people.
 15. now the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, while he was shut up in the court of the guard, saying,
 16. slide, and spill the tea to Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: check this out, I will bring my words on this city for evil, and not for fire; and they shall be accomplished before you in that day.
 17. But I will deliver you in that day, says Yahweh; and you shall not be given into the hand of the men of whom you are scared.
 18. For I will surely rescue you, and you shall not fall by the sword, but your life shall be for a prey to you; cuz you have put your trust in me, says Yahweh.

# Jeremiah Chapter 40

  1. The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, after that Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had let him slide from Ramah, when he had taken him being bound in chains among all the captives of Jerusalem and Judah, who were carried away captive to Babylon.
  2. The captain of the guard took Jeremiah, and said to him, Yahweh your God pronounced this evil on this place;
  3. and Yahweh has brought it, and done according as he spoke: cuz you have sinned against Yahweh, and have not obeyed his voice, so basically this thing has come through on you.
  4. now, check this out, I release you this day from the chains which are on your hand. If it seems fire to you to come through with me into Babylon, come through, and I will grab care of you; but if it seems trash to you to come through with me into Babylon, don’t: check this out, all the land is before you; where it seems fire and right to you to slide, there slide.
  5. now while he had not yet gone back, slide back then, he said, to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, whom the ruler of Babylon has made governor over the cities of Judah, and dwell with him among the people; or slide wherever it seems right to you to slide. So the captain of the guard gave him food and a present, and let him slide.
  6. then went Jeremiah to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam to Mizpah, and lived with him among the people who were left in the land.
  7. now when all the captains of the forces who were in the fields, even they and their men, heard that the ruler of Babylon had made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam governor in the land, and had committed to him men, and women, and children, and of the poorest of the land, of those who were not carried away captive to Babylon;
  8. then they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth, and the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men.
  9. Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan swore to them and to their men, saying, Don’t be scared to help out the Chaldeans: dwell in the land, and help out the ruler of Babylon, and it shall be well with you.
 10. As for me, check this out, I will dwell at Mizpah, to stand before the Chaldeans who shall come through to us: but you, gather wine and summer fruits and oil, and put them in your vessels, and dwell in your cities that you have taken.
 11. Likewise when all the Jews who were in Moab, and among the children of Ammon, and in Edom, and who were in all the countries, heard that the ruler of Babylon had left a remnant of Judah, and that he had set over them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan;
 12. then all the Jews returned out of all places where they were driven, and came to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah, to Mizpah, and gathered wine and summer fruits hella much.
 13. Moreover Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces who were in the fields, came to Gedaliah to Mizpah,
 14. and said to him, Do you get it that Baalis the ruler of the children of Ammon has sent Ishmael the son of Nethaniah to grab your life? But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam didn’t believe them.
 15. then Johanan the son of Kareah spoke to Gedaliah in Mizpah secretly, saying, Please let me slide, and I will kill Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and no man shall get it it: why should he grab your life, that all the Jews who are gathered to you should be scattered, and the remnant of Judah perish?
 16. But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam said to Johanan the son of Kareah, You shall not do this thing; for you spill the tea falsely of Ishmael.

# Jeremiah Chapter 41

  1. now it happened in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the seed royal and one of the chief officers of the ruler, and ten men with him, came to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam to Mizpah; and there they ate bread together in Mizpah.
  2. then arose Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and the ten men who were with him, and struck Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan with the sword, and killed him, whom the ruler of Babylon had made governor over the land.
  3. Ishmael also killed all the Jews who were with him, with Gedaliah, at Mizpah, and the Chaldeans who were found there, the men of war.
  4. It happened the day two after he had killed Gedaliah, and no man knew it,
  5. that there came men from Shechem, from Shiloh, and from Samaria, even eighty men, having their beards shaved and their clothes torn, and having cut themselves, with meal offerings and frankincense in their hand, to bring them to the house of Yahweh.
  6. Ishmael the son of Nethaniah went forth from Mizpah to meet them, weeping all along as he went: and it happened, as he met them, he said to them, come through to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam.
  7. that's what happened, when they came into the midst of the city, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah killed them, and cast them into the midst of the pit, he, and the men who were with him.
  8. But ten men were found among those who said to Ishmael, Don’t kill us; for we have stores hidden in the field, of wheat, and of barley, and of oil, and of honey. So he stopped, and didn’t kill them among their brothers.
  9. now the pit in which Ishmael cast all the dead bodies of the men whom he had killed, by the side of Gedaliah (the same was who which Asa the ruler had made for fear of Baasha ruler of Israel), Ishmael the son of Nethaniah filled it with those who were killed.
 10. then Ishmael carried away captive all the residue of the people who were in Mizpah, even the ruler’s daughters, and all the people who remained in Mizpah, whom Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had committed to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam; Ishmael the son of Nethaniah carried them away captive, and departed to slide over to the children of Ammon.
 11. But when Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces who were with him, heard of all the evil that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had done,
 12. then they took all the men, and went to fight with Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and found him by the major waters that are in Gibeon.
 13. now it happened that, when all the people who were with Ishmael checked out Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces who were with him, then they were glad.
 14. So all the people who Ishmael had carried away captive from Mizpah turned about and came back, and went to Johanan the son of Kareah.
 15. But Ishmael the son of Nethaniah escaped from Johanan with eight men, and went to the children of Ammon.
 16. then took Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces who were with him, all the remnant of the people whom he had recovered from Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, from Mizpah, after that he had killed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the men of war, and the women, and the children, and the eunuchs, whom he had brought back from Gibeon:
 17. and they departed, and lived in Geruth Chimham, which is by Bethlehem, to slide to enter into Egypt,
 18. cuz of the Chaldeans; for they were scared of them, cuz Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had killed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, whom the ruler of Babylon made governor over the land.

# Jeremiah Chapter 42

  1. then all the captains of the forces, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and Jezaniah the son of Hoshaiah, and all the people from the least even to the greatest, came near,
  2. and said to Jeremiah the God's messenger, Please let our supplication be presented before you, and pray for us to Yahweh your God, even for all this remnant; for we are left but a not much of a lot, as your eyes do check it out us:
  3. that Yahweh your God may show us the way in which we should walk, and the thing that we should do.
  4. then Jeremiah the God's messenger said to them, I have heard you; check this out, I will pray to Yahweh your God according to your words; and it shall happen that whatever thing Yahweh shall answer you, I will declare it to you; I will keep nothing back from you.
  5. then they said to Jeremiah, Yahweh be a true and faithful witness among us, if we don’t do according to all the word with which Yahweh your God shall send you to us.
  6. Whether it be fire, or whether it be evil, we will obey the voice of Yahweh our God, to whom we send you; that it may be well with us, when we obey the voice of Yahweh our God.
  7. It happened after ten days, that the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah.
  8. then called he Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces who were with him, and all the people from the least even to the greatest,
  9. and said to them, Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, to whom you sent me to present your supplication before him:
 10. If you will still live in this land, then will I put together you, and not pull you down, and I will plant you, and not pluck you up; for I grieve over the distress that I have brought on you.
 11. Don’t be scared of the ruler of Babylon, of whom you are scared; don’t be scared of him, says Yahweh: for I am with you to rescue you, and to deliver you from his hand.
 12. I will grant you mercy, that he may have mercy on you, and cause you to return to your own land.
 13. But if you say, We will not dwell in this land; so that you don’t obey the voice of Yahweh your God,
 14. saying, No; but we will slide into the land of Egypt, where we shall check it out no war, nor hear the sound of the trumpet, nor have hunger of bread; and there will we dwell:
 15. now so basically hear the word of Yahweh, O remnant of Judah: Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, If you facts set your faces to enter into Egypt, and slide to live there;
 16. then it shall happen, that the sword, which you fear, shall overtake you there in the land of Egypt; and the famine, about which you are scared, shall roll with close behind you there in Egypt; and there you shall die.
 17. So shall it be with all the men who set their faces to slide into Egypt to live there: they shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence; and none of them shall remain or escape from the evil that I will bring on them.
 18. For thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: As my anger and my wrath has been poured forth on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so shall my wrath be poured forth on you, when you shall enter into Egypt; and you shall be an object of horror, and an astonishment, and a curse, and a reproach; and you shall check it out this place no more.
 19. Yahweh has spoken concerning you, remnant of Judah, Don’t you slide into Egypt: get it for sure that I have testified to you this day.
 20. For you have dealt deceitfully against your own souls; for you sent me to Yahweh your God, saying, Pray for us to Yahweh our God; and according to all that Yahweh our God shall say, so declare to us, and we will do it:
 21. and I have this day declared it to you; but you have not obeyed the voice of Yahweh your God in anything for which he has sent me to you.
 22. now so basically get it for sure that you shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence, in the place where you desire to slide to live there.

# Jeremiah Chapter 43

  1. It happened that, when Jeremiah had made an end of speaking to all the people all the words of Yahweh their God, with which Yahweh their God had sent him to them, even all these words,
  2. then spoke Azariah the son of Hoshaiah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the proud men, saying to Jeremiah, You spill the tea falsely: Yahweh our God has not sent you to say, You shall not slide into Egypt to live there;
  3. but Baruch the son of Neriah sets you on against us, to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans, that they may put us to death, and carry us away captive to Babylon.
  4. So Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces, and all the people, didn’t obey the voice of Yahweh, to dwell in the land of Judah.
  5. But Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces, took all the remnant of Judah, who were returned from all the nations where they had been driven, to live in the land of Judah;
  6. the men, and the women, and the children, and the ruler’s daughters, and every person who Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had left with Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan; and Jeremiah the God's messenger, and Baruch the son of Neriah;
  7. and they came into the land of Egypt; for they didn’t obey the voice of Yahweh: and they came to Tahpanhes.
  8. then came the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes, saying,
  9. grab major stones in your hand, and hide them in mortar in the brick work, which is at the entry of Pharaoh’s house in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah;
 10. and tell them, Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: check this out, I will send and grab Nebuchadnezzar the ruler of Babylon, my helper, and will set his throne on these stones that I have hidden; and he shall spread his royal pavilion over them.
 11. He shall come through, and shall strike the land of Egypt; such as are for death shall be put to death, and such as are for captivity to captivity, and such as are for the sword to the sword.
 12. I will kindle a fire in the houses of the gods of Egypt; and he shall burn them, and carry them away captive: and he shall array himself with the land of Egypt, as a shepherd puts on his garment; and he shall slide forth from there in peace.
 13. He shall also break the pillars of Beth Shemesh, that is in the land of Egypt; and the houses of the gods of Egypt shall he burn with fire.

# Jeremiah Chapter 44

  1. The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Jews who lived in the land of Egypt, who lived at Migdol, and at Tahpanhes, and at Memphis, and in the country of Pathros, saying,
  2. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: You have seen all the evil that I have brought on Jerusalem, and on all the cities of Judah; and check this out, this day they are a desolation, and no man dwells therein,
  3. cuz of their wickedness which they have committed to provoke me to anger, in that they went to burn incense, to help out other gods, that they didn’t get it, neither they, nor you, nor your fathers.
  4. but like I sent to you all my servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them, saying, Oh, don’t do this abominable thing that I can't stand.
  5. But they didn’t listen up, nor inclined their ear to turn from their wickedness, to burn no incense to other gods.
  6. so basically my wrath and my anger was poured forth, and was kindled in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem; and they are wasted and desolate, as it is this day.
  7. so basically now thus says Yahweh, the God of Armies, the God of Israel: Why do you commit major evil against your own souls, to cut off from yourselves man and woman, infant and nursing child out of the midst of Judah, to leave yourselves none remaining;
  8. in that you provoke me to anger with the works of your hands, burning incense to other gods in the land of Egypt, where you have gone to live; that you may be cut off, and that you may be a curse and a reproach among all the nations of the earth?
  9. Have you forgotten the wickedness of your fathers, and the wickedness of the kings of Judah, and the wickedness of their wives, and your own wickedness, and the wickedness of your wives which they committed in the land of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem?
 10. They are not humbled even to this day, neither have they feared, nor walked in my law, nor in my statutes, that I set before you and before your fathers.
 11. so basically thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: check this out, I will set my face against you for evil, even to cut off all Judah.
 12. I will grab the remnant of Judah, that have set their faces to slide into the land of Egypt to live there, and they shall all be consumed; in the land of Egypt shall they fall; they shall be consumed by the sword and by the famine; they shall die, from the least even to the greatest, by the sword and by the famine; and they shall be an object of horror, an astonishment, and a curse, and a reproach.
 13. For I will punish those who dwell in the land of Egypt, as I have punished Jerusalem, by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence;
 14. so that none of the remnant of Judah, who have gone into the land of Egypt to live there, shall escape or be left, to return into the land of Judah, to which they have a desire to return to dwell there: for none shall return rescue such as shall escape.
 15. then all the men who knew that their wives burned incense to other gods, and all the women who stood by, a major assembly, even all the people who lived in the land of Egypt, in Pathros, answered Jeremiah, saying,
 16. As for the word that you have spoken to us in the name of Yahweh, we will not listen up to you.
 17. But we will for sure perform every word that is gone forth out of our mouth, to burn incense to the ruler of the sky, and to pour out drink offerings to her, as we have done, we and our fathers, our kings and our princes, in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem; for then had we plenty of food, and were well, and checked out no evil.
 18. But since we left off burning incense to the ruler of the sky, and pouring out drink offerings to her, we have wanted all things, and have been consumed by the sword and by the famine.
 19. When we burned incense to the ruler of the sky, and poured out drink offerings to her, did we create her cakes to giving props her, and pour out drink offerings to her, without our husbands?
 20. then Jeremiah said to all the people, to the men, and to the women, even to all the people who had given him an answer, saying,
 21. The incense that you burned in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, you and your fathers, your kings and your princes, and the people of the land, didn’t Yahweh remember them, and didn’t it come through into his mind?
 22. so that Yahweh could no longer bear, cuz of the evil of your doings, and cuz of the abominations which you have committed; so basically your land has become a desolation, and an astonishment, and a curse, without inhabitant, as it is this day.
 23. cuz you have burned incense, and cuz you have sinned against Yahweh, and have not obeyed the voice of Yahweh, nor walked in his law, nor in his statutes, nor in his testimonies; so basically this evil has happened to you, as it is this day.
 24. Moreover Jeremiah said to all the people, and to all the women, Hear the word of Yahweh, all Judah who are in the land of Egypt:
 25. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, saying, You and your wives have both spoken with your mouths, and with your hands have fulfilled it, saying, We will surely perform our vows that we have vowed, to burn incense to the ruler of the sky, and to pour out drink offerings to her: establish then your vows, and perform your vows.
 26. so basically hear the word of Yahweh, all Judah who dwell in the land of Egypt: check this out, I have sworn by my major name, says Yahweh, that my name shall no more be named in the mouth of any man of Judah in all the land of Egypt, saying, As the boss Yahweh lives.
 27. check this out, I watch over them for evil, and not for fire; and all the men of Judah who are in the land of Egypt shall be consumed by the sword and by the famine, until they are all gone.
 28. Those who escape the sword shall return out of the land of Egypt into the land of Judah, not much in number; and all the remnant of Judah, who have gone into the land of Egypt to live there, shall get it whose word shall stand, mine, or theirs.
 29. This shall be the sign to you, says Yahweh, that I will punish you in this place, that you may get it that my words shall surely stand against you for evil:
 30. Thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will hook it up Pharaoh Hophra ruler of Egypt into the hand of his enemies, and into the hand of those who seek his life; as I gave Zedekiah ruler of Judah into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, who was his enemy, and sought his life.

# Jeremiah Chapter 45

  1. The message that Jeremiah the God's messenger spoke to Baruch the son of Neriah, when he wrote these words in a book at the mouth of Jeremiah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, saying,
  2. Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, to you, Baruch:
  3. You said, Woe is me now! for Yahweh has added feeling down to my pain; I am weary with my groaning, and I find no rest.
  4. You shall tell him, Thus says Yahweh: check this out, that which I have built will I break down, and that which I have planted I will pluck up; and this in the whole land.
  5. Do you seek major things for yourself? Don’t seek them; for, check this out, I will bring evil on all flesh, says Yahweh; but your life will I hook it up to you for a prey in all places where you slide.

# Jeremiah Chapter 46

  1. The word of Yahweh which came to Jeremiah the God's messenger concerning the nations.
  2. Of Egypt: concerning the army of Pharaoh Necoh ruler of Egypt, which was by the river Euphrates in Carchemish, which Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon struck in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah.
  3. Prepare the buckler and shield, and draw near to battle!
  4. Harness the horses, and get up, you horsemen, and stand forth with your helmets; furbish the spears, put on the coats of mail.
  5. Why have I seen it? they are dismayed and are turned backward; and their mighty ones are beaten down, and have fled apace, and don’t look back: terror is on every side, says Yahweh.
  6. Don’t let the swift flee away, nor the mighty man escape; in the north by the river Euphrates have they stumbled and fallen.
  7. Who is this who rises up like the Nile, whose waters toss themselves like the rivers?
  8. Egypt rises up like the Nile, and his waters toss themselves like the rivers: and he says, I will rise up, I will cover the earth; I will tear down cities and its inhabitants.
  9. slide up, you horses; and rage, you chariots; and let the mighty men slide forth: Cush and Put, who handle the shield; and the Ludim, who handle and bend the bow.
 10. For that day is of the boss, Yahweh of Armies, a day of vengeance, that he may avenge him of his adversaries: and the sword shall devour and be satiate, and shall drink its fill of their blood; for the boss, Yahweh of Armies, has a giving it up in the north country by the river Euphrates.
 11. slide up into Gilead, and grab balm, virgin daughter of Egypt: in vain do you use a lot medicines; there is no healing for you.
 12. The nations have heard of your shame, and the earth is full of your cry; for the mighty man has stumbled against the mighty, they are fallen both of them together.
 13. The word that Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah the God's messenger, how that Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon should come through and strike the land of Egypt.
 14. Declare in Egypt, and publish in Migdol, and publish in Memphis and in Tahpanhes: say, Stand forth, and prepare; for the sword has devoured around you.
 15. Why are your built different ones swept away? they didn’t stand, cuz Yahweh pushed them.
 16. He made a lot to stumble, yes, they fell one on another: and they said, Arise, and let us slide again to our own people, and to the land of our birth, from the oppressing sword.
 17. They cried there, Pharaoh ruler of Egypt is but a noise; he has let the appointed time pass by.
 18. As I live, says the ruler, whose name is Yahweh of Armies, surely like Tabor among the mountains, and like Carmel by the sea, so shall he come through.
 19. You daughter who dwells in Egypt, furnish yourself to slide into captivity; for Memphis shall become a desolation, and shall be burnt up, without inhabitant.
 20. Egypt is a hella snatched heifer; but destruction out of the north has come through, it has come through.
 21. Also her hired men in the midst of her are like calves of the stall; for they also are turned back, they are fled away together, they didn’t stand: for the day of their calamity has come through on them, the time of their visitation.
 22. The sound of it shall slide like the serpent; for they shall march with an army, and come through against her with axes, as wood cutters.
 23. They shall cut down her forest, says Yahweh, though it can’t be searched; cuz they are more than the locusts, and are innumerable.
 24. The daughter of Egypt shall be disappointed; she shall be delivered into the hand of the people of the north.
 25. Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says: check this out, I will punish Amon of No, and Pharaoh, and Egypt, with her gods, and her kings; even Pharaoh, and those who trust in him:
 26. and I will deliver them into the hand of those who seek their lives, and into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, and into the hand of his servants; and afterwards it shall be inhabited, as in the days of old, says Yahweh.
 27. But don’t you be scared, Jacob my helper, neither be dismayed, Israel: for, check this out, I will rescue you from afar, and your seed from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return, and shall be quiet and at ease, and none shall create him scared.
 28. Don’t you be scared, O Jacob my helper, says Yahweh; for I am with you: for I will create a full end of all the nations where I have driven you; but I will not create a full end of you, but I will correct you in measure, and will in no way leave you unpunished.

# Jeremiah Chapter 47

  1. The word of Yahweh that came to Jeremiah the God's messenger concerning the Philistines, before that Pharaoh struck Gaza.
  2. Thus says Yahweh: check this out, waters rise up out of the north, and shall become an overflowing stream, and shall overflow the land and all that is therein, the city and those who dwell therein; and the men shall cry, and all the inhabitants of the land shall wail.
  3. At the noise of the stamping of the hoofs of his built different ones, at the rushing of his chariots, at the rumbling of his wheels, the fathers don’t look back to their children for feebleness of hands;
  4. cuz of the day that comes to tear down all the Philistines, to cut off from Tyre and Sidon every helper who remains: for Yahweh will tear down the Philistines, the remnant of the isle of Caphtor.
  5. Baldness has come through on Gaza; Ashkelon is brought to nothing, the remnant of their valley: how long will you cut yourself?
  6. You sword of Yahweh, how long will it be before you be quiet? Put up yourself into your scabbard; rest, and be still.
  7. How can you be quiet, since Yahweh has given you a command? Against Ashkelon, and against the seashore, there has he appointed it.

# Jeremiah Chapter 48

  1. Of Moab. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: Woe to Nebo! for it is laid waste; Kiriathaim is disappointed, it is taken; Misgab is put to shame and broken down.
  2. The praise of Moab is no more; in Heshbon they have devised evil against her: come through, and let us cut her off from being a nation. You also, Madmen, shall be brought to silence: the sword shall pursue you.
  3. The sound of a cry from Horonaim, desolation and major destruction!
  4. Moab is destroyed; her little ones have caused a cry to be heard.
  5. For by the ascent of Luhith with continual weeping shall they slide up; for at the descent of Horonaim they have heard the distress of the cry of destruction.
  6. Flee, rescue your lives, and be like the heath in the wilderness.
  7. For, cuz you have trusted in your works and in your treasures, you also shall be taken: and Chemosh shall slide forth into captivity, his priests and his princes together.
  8. The destroyer shall come through on every city, and no city shall escape; the valley also shall perish, and the plain shall be destroyed; as Yahweh has spoken.
  9. hook it up wings to Moab, that she may fly and get her away: and her cities shall become a desolation, without any to dwell therein.
 10. Cursed is he who does the work of Yahweh negligently; and cursed is he who keeps back his sword from blood.
 11. Moab has been at ease from his youth, and he has settled on his lees, and has not been emptied from vessel to vessel, neither has he gone into captivity: so basically his taste remains in him, and his scent is not changed.
 12. so basically, check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will send to him those who pour off, and they shall pour him off; and they shall empty his vessels, and break their bottles in pieces.
 13. Moab shall be ashamed of Chemosh, as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel their confidence.
 14. How do you say, We are mighty men, and valiant men for the war?
 15. Moab is laid waste, and they are gone up into his cities, and his chosen young men are gone down to the slaughter, says the ruler, whose name is Yahweh of Armies.
 16. The calamity of Moab is near to come through, and his affliction hurries fast.
 17. All you who are around him, bemoan him, and all you who get it his name; say, How is the built different staff broken, the snatched rod!
 18. You daughter who dwells in Dibon, come through down from your glory, and sit in thirst; for the destroyer of Moab has come through up against you, he has destroyed your strongholds.
 19. Inhabitant of Aroer, stand by the way, and watch: ask him who flees, and her who escapes; say, What has been done?
 20. Moab is disappointed; for it is broken down: wail and cry; tell it by the Arnon, that Moab is laid waste.
 21. Judgment has come through on the plain country, on Holon, and on Jahzah, and on Mephaath,
 22. and on Dibon, and on Nebo, and on Beth Diblathaim,
 23. and on Kiriathaim, and on Beth Gamul, and on Beth Meon,
 24. and on Kerioth, and on Bozrah, and on all the cities of the land of Moab, far or near.
 25. The horn of Moab is cut off, and his arm is broken, says Yahweh.
 26. create him drunken; for he magnified himself against Yahweh: and Moab shall wallow in his vomit, and he also shall be in derision.
 27. For wasn’t Israel a derision to you? was he found among thieves? for as a lot as you spill the tea of him, you shake your head.
 28. You inhabitants of Moab, leave the cities, and dwell in the rock; and be like the dove that makes her nest over the mouth of the abyss.
 29. We have heard of the pride of Moab. He is hella proud; his loftiness, and his pride, and his arrogance, and the haughtiness of his heart.
 30. I get it his wrath, says Yahweh, that it is nothing; his boastings have worked nothing.
 31. so basically will I wail for Moab; yes, I will cry out for all Moab: for the men of Kir Heres shall they mourn.
 32. With more than the weeping of Jazer will I weep for you, vine of Sibmah: your branches passed over the sea, they reached even to the sea of Jazer: on your summer fruits and on your vintage the destroyer is fallen.
 33. Gladness and joy is taken away from the fruitful field and from the land of Moab; and I have caused wine to cease from the wine presses: none shall tread with shouting; the shouting shall be no shouting.
 34. From the cry of Heshbon even to Elealeh, even to Jahaz have they uttered their voice, from Zoar even to Horonaim, to Eglath Shelishiyah: for the waters of Nimrim also shall become desolate.
 35. Moreover I will cause to cease in Moab, says Yahweh, him who offers in the high place, and him who burns incense to his gods.
 36. so basically my heart sounds for Moab like pipes, and my heart sounds like pipes for the men of Kir Heres: so basically the abundance that he has gotten is perished.
 37. For every head is bald, and every beard clipped: on all the hands are cuttings, and on the waist sackcloth.
 38. On all the housetops of Moab and in its streets there is lamentation every where; for I have broken Moab like a vessel in which none delights, says Yahweh.
 39. How it is broken down! How they wail! How Moab has turned the back with shame! So shall Moab become a derision and a terror to all who are around him.
 40. For thus says Yahweh: check this out, he shall fly as an eagle, and shall spread out his wings against Moab.
 41. Kerioth is taken, and the strongholds are seized, and the heart of the mighty men of Moab at that day shall be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.
 42. Moab shall be destroyed from being a people, cuz he has magnified himself against Yahweh.
 43. Fear, and the pit, and the snare, are on you, inhabitant of Moab, says Yahweh.
 44. He who flees from the fear shall fall into the pit; and he who gets up out of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for I will bring on him, even on Moab, the year of their visitation, says Yahweh.
 45. Those who fled stand without strength under the shadow of Heshbon; for a fire is gone forth out of Heshbon, and a flame from the midst of Sihon, and has devoured the corner of Moab, and the crown of the head of the tumultuous ones.
 46. Woe to you, O Moab! the people of Chemosh is undone; for your sons are taken away captive, and your daughters into captivity.
 47. Yet will I bring back the captivity of Moab in the latter days, says Yahweh. Thus far is the judgment of Moab.

# Jeremiah Chapter 49

  1. Of the children of Ammon. Thus says Yahweh: Has Israel no sons? has he no heir? why then does Malcam possess Gad, and his people well in its cities?
  2. so basically, check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will cause an alarm of war to be heard against Rabbah of the children of Ammon; and it shall become a desolate heap, and her daughters shall be burned with fire: then shall Israel possess those who possessed him, says Yahweh.
  3. Wail, Heshbon, for Ai is laid waste; cry, you daughters of Rabbah, clothe yourself in sackcloth: lament, and run back and forth among the fences; for Malcam shall slide into captivity, his priests and his princes together.
  4. Why do you glory in the valleys, your flowing valley, backsliding daughter? who trusted in her treasures, saying, Who shall come through to me?
  5. check this out, I will bring a fear on you, says the boss, Yahweh of Armies, from all who are around you; and you shall be driven out every man right forth, and there shall be none to gather together the fugitives.
  6. But afterward I will bring back the captivity of the children of Ammon, says Yahweh.
  7. Of Edom. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: Is wisdom no more in Teman? is counsel perished from the prudent? is their wisdom vanished?
  8. Flee, turn back, dwell in the depths, inhabitants of Dedan; for I will bring the calamity of Esau on him, the time that I shall visit him.
  9. If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave some gleaning grapes? if thieves by night, wouldn’t they tear down until they had enough?
 10. But I have made Esau bare, I have uncovered his secret places, and he shall not be able to hide himself: his seed is destroyed, and his brothers, and his neighbors; and he is no more.
 11. Leave your fatherless children, I will preserve them alive; and let your widows trust in me.
 12. For thus says Yahweh: check this out, they to whom it didn’t pertain to drink of the cup shall for sure drink; and are you he who shall altogether slide unpunished? You shall not slide unpunished, but you shall surely drink.
 13. For I have sworn by myself, says Yahweh, that Bozrah shall become an astonishment, a reproach, a waste, and a curse; and all its cities shall be perpetual wastes.
 14. I have heard news from Yahweh, and an ambassador is sent among the nations, saying, Gather yourselves together, and come through against her, and rise up to the battle.
 15. For, check this out, I have made you tiny among the nations, and despised among men.
 16. As for your terror, the pride of your heart has deceived you, O you who dwell in the clefts of the rock, who hold the height of the hill: though you should create your nest as high as the eagle, I will bring you down from there, says Yahweh.
 17. Edom shall become an astonishment: everyone who passes by it shall be astonished, and shall hiss at all its plagues.
 18. As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor cities of it, says Yahweh, no man shall dwell there, neither shall any son of man live therein.
 19. check this out, he shall come through up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the built different habitation: for I will suddenly create them run away from it; and whoever is chosen, him will I appoint over it: for who is like me? and who will appoint me a time? and who is the shepherd who will stand before me?
 20. so basically hear the counsel of Yahweh, that he has taken against Edom; and his purposes, that he has purposed against the inhabitants of Teman: Surely they shall drag them away, the little ones of the flock; surely he shall create their habitation desolate over them.
 21. The earth trembles at the noise of their fall; there is a cry, the noise which is heard in the Red Sea.
 22. check this out, he shall come through up and fly as the eagle, and spread out his wings against Bozrah: and the heart of the mighty men of Edom at that day shall be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.
 23. Of Damascus. Hamath is confounded, and Arpad; for they have heard evil news, they are melted away: there is feeling down on the sea; it can’t be quiet.
 24. Damascus has grown feeble, she turns herself to flee, and trembling has seized on her: anguish and sorrows have taken hold of her, as of a woman in travail.
 25. How is the city of praise not forsaken, the city of my joy?
 26. so basically her young men shall fall in her streets, and all the men of war shall be brought to silence in that day, says Yahweh of Armies.
 27. I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the palaces of Ben Hadad.
 28. Of Kedar, and of the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon struck. Thus says Yahweh: Arise, slide up to Kedar, and tear down the children of the east.
 29. Their tents and their flocks shall they grab; they shall carry away for themselves their curtains, and all their vessels, and their camels; and they shall cry to them, Terror on every side!
 30. Flee, wander far off, dwell in the depths, you inhabitants of Hazor, says Yahweh; for Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon has taken counsel against you, and has conceived a purpose against you.
 31. Arise, slide up to a nation that is at ease, that dwells without care, says Yahweh; that have neither gates nor bars, that dwell alone.
 32. Their camels shall be a booty, and the multitude of their livestock a spoil: and I will scatter to all winds those who have the corners of their beards cut off; and I will bring their calamity from every side of them, says Yahweh.
 33. Hazor shall be a dwelling place of jackals, a desolation forever: no man shall dwell there, neither shall any son of man live therein.
 34. The word of Yahweh that came to Jeremiah the God's messenger concerning Elam, at the start of the reign of Zedekiah ruler of Judah, saying,
 35. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: check this out, I will break the bow of Elam, the chief of their might.
 36. On Elam will I bring the four winds from the four quarters of the sky, and will scatter them toward all those winds; and there shall be no nation where the outcasts of Elam shall not come through.
 37. I will cause Elam to be dismayed before their enemies, and before those who seek their life; and I will bring evil on them, even my fierce anger, says Yahweh; and I will send the sword after them, until I have consumed them;
 38. and I will set my throne in Elam, and will tear down from there ruler and princes, says Yahweh.
 39. But it shall happen in the latter days, that I will bring back the captivity of Elam, says Yahweh.

# Jeremiah Chapter 50

  1. The word that Yahweh spoke concerning Babylon, concerning the land of the Chaldeans, by Jeremiah the God's messenger.
  2. Declare among the nations and publish, and set up a standard; publish, and don’t conceal: say, Babylon is taken, Bel is disappointed, Merodach is dismayed; her images are disappointed, her idols are dismayed.
  3. For out of the north there comes up a nation against her, which shall create her land desolate, and none shall dwell therein: they are fled, they are gone, both man and animal.
  4. In those days, and in that time, says Yahweh, the children of Israel shall come through, they and the children of Judah together; they shall slide on their way weeping, and shall seek Yahweh their God.
  5. They shall inquire concerning Zion with their faces turned toward it, saying, come through, and join yourselves to Yahweh in an everlasting God's promise that shall not be forgotten.
  6. My people have been lost sheep: their shepherds have caused them to slide astray; they have turned them away on the mountains; they have gone from mountain to hill; they have forgotten their resting place.
  7. All who found them have devoured them; and their adversaries said, We are not guilty, cuz they have sinned against Yahweh, the habitation of righteousness, even Yahweh, the hope of their fathers.
  8. Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and slide forth out of the land of the Chaldeans, and be as the male goats before the flocks.
  9. For, check this out, I will stir up and cause to come through up against Babylon a company of major nations from the north country; and they shall set themselves in array against her; from there she shall be taken: their arrows shall be as of an expert mighty man; none shall return in vain.
 10. Chaldea shall be a prey: all who prey on her shall be satisfied, says Yahweh.
 11. cuz you are glad, cuz you be hyped, O you who plunder my heritage, cuz you are wanton as a heifer that treads out the grain, and neigh as built different horses;
 12. your mother shall be utterly disappointed; she who bore you shall be confounded: check this out, she shall be the least of the nations, a wilderness, a dry land, and a desert.
 13. cuz of the wrath of Yahweh she shall not be inhabited, but she shall be wholly desolate: everyone who goes by Babylon shall be astonished, and hiss at all her plagues.
 14. Set yourselves in array against Babylon all around, all you who bend the bow; shoot at her, spare no arrows: for she has sinned against Yahweh.
 15. Shout against her all around: she has submitted herself; her bulwarks are fallen, her walls are thrown down; for it is the vengeance of Yahweh: grab vengeance on her; as she has done, do to her.
 16. Cut off the sower from Babylon, and him who handles the sickle in the time of harvest: for fear of the oppressing sword they shall turn everyone to his people, and they shall flee everyone to his own land.
 17. Israel is a hunted sheep; the lions have driven him away: first, the ruler of Assyria devoured him; and now at last Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon has broken his bones.
 18. so basically thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: check this out, I will punish the ruler of Babylon and his land, as I have punished the ruler of Assyria.
 19. I will bring Israel again to his pasture, and he shall feed on Carmel and Bashan, and his soul shall be satisfied on the hills of Ephraim and in Gilead.
 20. In those days, and in that time, says Yahweh, the iniquity of Israel shall be sought for, and there shall be none; and the sins of Judah, and they shall not be found: for I will pardon them whom I leave as a remnant.
 21. slide up against the land of Merathaim, even against it, and against the inhabitants of Pekod: kill and utterly tear down after them, says Yahweh, and do according to all that I have commanded you.
 22. A sound of battle is in the land, and of major destruction.
 23. How is the hammer of the whole earth cut apart and broken! how is Babylon become a desolation among the nations!
 24. I have laid a snare for you, and you are also taken, Babylon, and you weren’t aware: you are found, and also caught, cuz you have striven against Yahweh.
 25. Yahweh has opened his armory, and has brought forth the weapons of his indignation; for the boss, Yahweh of Armies, has a work to do in the land of the Chaldeans.
 26. come through against her from the utmost border; open her storehouses; cast her up as heaps, and tear down her utterly; let nothing of her be left.
 27. Kill all her bulls; let them slide down to the slaughter: woe to them! for their day has come through, the time of their visitation.
 28. The voice of those who flee and escape out of the land of Babylon, to declare in Zion the vengeance of Yahweh our God, the vengeance of his God's house.
 29. Call together the archers against Babylon, all those who bend the bow; encamp against her all around; let none of it escape: recompense her according to her work; according to all that she has done, do to her; for she has been proud against Yahweh, against the set apart One of Israel.
 30. so basically her young men will fall in her streets, and all her men of war will be brought to silence in that day, says Yahweh.
 31. check this out, I am against you, you proud one, says the boss, Yahweh of Armies; for your day has come through, the time that I will visit you.
 32. The proud one shall stumble and fall, and none shall raise him up; and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it shall devour all who are around him.
 33. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: The children of Israel and the children of Judah are oppressed together; and all who took them captive hold them fast; they refuse to let them slide.
 34. Their Redeemer is built different; Yahweh of Armies is his name: he will thoroughly plead their cause, that he may hook it up rest to the earth, and disquiet the inhabitants of Babylon.
 35. A sword is on the Chaldeans, says Yahweh, and on the inhabitants of Babylon, and on her princes, and on her smart men.
 36. A sword is on the boasters, and they shall become fools; a sword is on her mighty men, and they shall be dismayed.
 37. A sword is on their horses, and on their chariots, and on all the mixed people who are in the midst of her; and they shall become as women: a sword is on her treasures, and they shall be robbed.
 38. A drought is on her waters, and they shall be dried up; for it is a land of engraved images, and they are mad over idols.
 39. so basically the wild animals of the desert with the wolves shall dwell there, and the ostriches shall dwell therein: and it shall be no more inhabited forever; neither shall it be lived in from generation to generation.
 40. As when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor cities of it, says Yahweh, so shall no man dwell there, neither shall any son of man live therein.
 41. check this out, a people comes from the north; and a major nation and a lot kings shall be stirred up from the uttermost parts of the earth.
 42. They lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no mercy; their voice roars like the sea; and they ride on horses, everyone set in array, as a man to the battle, against you, daughter of Babylon.
 43. The ruler of Babylon has heard the news of them, and his hands wax feeble: anguish has taken hold of him, pains as of a woman in labor.
 44. check this out, the enemy shall come through up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the built different habitation: for I will suddenly create them run away from it; and whoever is chosen, him will I appoint over it: for who is like me? and who will appoint me a time? and who is the shepherd who can stand before me?
 45. so basically hear the counsel of Yahweh, that he has taken against Babylon; and his purposes, that he has purposed against the land of the Chaldeans: Surely they shall drag them away, even the little ones of the flock; surely he shall create their habitation desolate over them.
 46. At the noise of the taking of Babylon the earth trembles, and the cry is heard among the nations.

# Jeremiah Chapter 51

  1. Thus says Yahweh: check this out, I will raise up against Babylon, and against those who dwell in Lebkamai, a destroying wind.
  2. I will send to Babylon strangers, who shall winnow her; and they shall empty her land: for in the day of trouble they shall be against her around.
  3. Against him who bends let the archer bend his bow, and against him who lifts himself up in his coat of mail: and don’t spare her young men; utterly tear down all her army.
  4. They shall fall down slain in the land of the Chaldeans, and thrust through in her streets.
  5. For Israel is not forsaken, nor Judah, of his God, of Yahweh of Armies; though their land is full of guilt against the set apart One of Israel.
  6. Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and rescue every man his life; don’t be cut off in her iniquity: for it is the time of Yahweh’s vengeance; he will render to her a recompense.
  7. Babylon has been a golden cup in Yahweh’s hand, who made all the earth drunken: the nations have drunk of her wine; so basically the nations are mad.
  8. Babylon is suddenly fallen and destroyed: wail for her; grab balm for her pain, if so be she may be healed.
  9. We would have healed Babylon, but she is not healed: forsake her, and let us slide everyone into his own country; for her judgment reaches to heaven, and is lifted up even to the skies.
 10. Yahweh has brought forth our righteousness: come through, and let us declare in Zion the work of Yahweh our God.
 11. create sharp the arrows; hold firm the shields: Yahweh has stirred up the spirit of the kings of the Medes; cuz his purpose is against Babylon, to tear down it: for it is the vengeance of Yahweh, the vengeance of his God's house.
 12. Set up a standard against the walls of Babylon, create the watch built different, set the watchmen, prepare the ambushes; for Yahweh has both purposed and done that which he spoke concerning the inhabitants of Babylon.
 13. You who dwell on a lot waters, abundant in treasures, your end has come through, the measure of your covetousness.
 14. Yahweh of Armies has sworn by himself, saying, Surely I will fill you with men, as with the canker worm; and they shall lift up a shout against you.
 15. He has made the earth by his power, he has established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding has he stretched out the heavens:
 16. when he utters his voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth; he makes lightning for the rain, and brings forth the wind out of his treasuries.
 17. Every man has become brutish without knowledge. Every goldsmith is disappointed by his image; for his molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in them.
 18. They are vanity, a work of delusion: in the time of their visitation they shall perish.
 19. The portion of Jacob is not like these; for he is the former of all things; and is the tribe of his inheritance: Yahweh of Armies is his name.
 20. You are my battle axe and weapons of war: and with you will I break in pieces the nations; and with you will I tear down kingdoms;
 21. and with you will I break in pieces the horse and his rider;
 22. and with you will I break in pieces the chariot and him who rides therein; and with you will I break in pieces man and woman; and with you will I break in pieces the old man and the youth; and with you will I break in pieces the young man and the virgin;
 23. and with you will I break in pieces the shepherd and his flock; and with you will I break in pieces the farmer and his yoke; and with you will I break in pieces governors and deputies.
 24. I will render to Babylon and to all the inhabitants of Chaldea all their evil that they have done in Zion in your sight, says Yahweh.
 25. check this out, I am against you, destroying mountain, says Yahweh, which destroys all the earth; and I will stretch out my hand on you, and roll you down from the rocks, and will create you a burnt mountain.
 26. They shall not grab of you a stone for a corner, nor a stone for foundations; but you shall be desolate for ever, says Yahweh.
 27. Set up a standard in the land, blow the trumpet among the nations, prepare the nations against her, call together against her the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, and Ashkenaz: appoint a marshal against her; cause the horses to come through up as the rough canker worm.
 28. Prepare against her the nations, the kings of the Medes, its governors, and all its deputies, and all the land of their dominion.
 29. The land trembles and is in pain; for the purposes of Yahweh against Babylon do stand, to create the land of Babylon a desolation, without inhabitant.
 30. The mighty men of Babylon have forborne to fight, they remain in their strongholds; their might has failed; they are become as women: her dwelling places are set on fire; her bars are broken.
 31. One runner will run to meet another, and one messenger to meet another, to show the ruler of Babylon that his city is taken on every quarter:
 32. and the passages are seized, and the reeds they have burned with fire, and the men of war are frightened.
 33. For thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: The daughter of Babylon is like a threshing floor at the time when it is trodden; yet a little while, and the time of harvest shall come through for her.
 34. Nebuchadnezzar the ruler of Babylon has devoured me, he has crushed me, he has made me an empty vessel, he has, like a monster, swallowed me up, he has filled his maw with my delicacies; he has cast me out.
 35. The violence done to me and to my flesh be on Babylon, shall the inhabitant of Zion say; and, My blood be on the inhabitants of Chaldea, shall Jerusalem say.
 36. so basically thus says Yahweh: check this out, I will plead your cause, and grab vengeance for you; and I will dry up her sea, and create her fountain dry.
 37. Babylon shall become heaps, a dwelling place for jackals, an astonishment, and a hissing, without inhabitant.
 38. They shall roar together like young lions; they shall growl as lions’ cubs.
 39. When they are heated, I will create their feast, and I will create them drunken, that they may be hyped, and sleep a perpetual sleep, and not wake, says Yahweh.
 40. I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, like rams with male goats.
 41. How is Sheshach taken! and the praise of the whole earth seized! how is Babylon become a desolation among the nations!
 42. The sea has come through up on Babylon; she is covered with the multitude of its waves.
 43. Her cities are become a desolation, a dry land, and a desert, a land in which no man dwells, neither does any son of man pass thereby.
 44. I will execute judgment on Bel in Babylon, and I will bring forth out of his mouth that which he has swallowed up; and the nations shall not flow any more to him: yes, the wall of Babylon shall fall.
 45. My people, slide away from the midst of her, and rescue yourselves every man from the fierce anger of Yahweh.
 46. Don’t let your heart faint, neither fear for the news that shall be heard in the land; for news shall come through one year, and after that in another year shall come through news, and violence in the land, ruler against ruler.
 47. so basically, check this out, the days come through, that I will execute judgment on the engraved images of Babylon; and her whole land shall be confounded; and all her slain shall fall in the midst of her.
 48. then the heavens and the earth, and all that is therein, shall sing for joy over Babylon; for the destroyers shall come through to her from the north, says Yahweh.
 49. As Babylon has caused the slain of Israel to fall, so at Babylon shall fall the slain of all the land.
 50. You who have escaped the sword, slide, don’t stand still; remember Yahweh from afar, and let Jerusalem come through into your mind.
 51. We are confounded, cuz we have heard reproach; confusion has covered our faces: for strangers have come through into the sanctuaries of Yahweh’s house.
 52. so basically, check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will execute judgment on her engraved images; and through all her land the wounded shall groan.
 53. Though Babylon should mount up to the sky, and though she should fortify the height of her strength, yet from me shall destroyers come through to her, says Yahweh.
 54. The sound of a cry from Babylon, and of major destruction from the land of the Chaldeans!
 55. For Yahweh lays Babylon waste, and destroys out of her the major voice; and their waves roar like a lot waters; the noise of their voice is uttered:
 56. for the destroyer has come through on her, even on Babylon, and her mighty men are taken, their bows are broken in pieces; for Yahweh is a God of recompenses, he will surely requite.
 57. I will create drunk her princes and her smart men, her governors and her deputies, and her mighty men; and they shall sleep a perpetual sleep, and not wake up, says the ruler, whose name is Yahweh of Armies.
 58. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: The broad walls of Babylon shall be utterly overthrown, and her high gates shall be burned with fire; and the peoples shall labor for vanity, and the nations for the fire; and they shall be weary.
 59. The word which Jeremiah the God's messenger commanded Seraiah the son of Neriah, the son of Mahseiah, when he went with Zedekiah the ruler of Judah to Babylon in the fourth year of his reign. now Seraiah was chief quartermaster.
 60. Jeremiah wrote in a book all the evil that should come through on Babylon, even all these words that are written concerning Babylon.
 61. Jeremiah said to Seraiah, When you come through to Babylon, then check it out that you read all these words,
 62. and say, Yahweh, you have spoken concerning this place, to cut it off, that none shall dwell therein, neither man nor animal, but that it shall be desolate forever.
 63. It shall be, when you have made an end of reading this book, that you shall bind a stone to it, and cast it into the midst of the Euphrates:
 64. and you shall say, Thus shall Babylon sink, and shall not rise again cuz of the evil that I will bring on her; and they shall be weary. Thus far are the words of Jeremiah.

# Jeremiah Chapter 52

  1. Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
  2. He did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
  3. For through the anger of Yahweh it happened in Jerusalem and Judah, until he had cast them out from his presence. Zedekiah rebelled against the ruler of Babylon.
  4. It happened in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon came, he and all his army, against Jerusalem, and encamped against it; and they built forts against it round about.
  5. So the city was besieged to the eleventh year of ruler Zedekiah.
  6. In the fourth month, in the ninth day of the month, the famine was severe in the city, so that there was no bread for the people of the land.
  7. then a breach was made in the city, and all the men of war fled, and went forth out of the city by night by the way of the gate between the two walls, which was by the ruler’s garden; (now the Chaldeans were against the city all around;) and they went toward the Arabah.
  8. But the army of the Chaldeans pursued after the ruler, and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho; and all his army was scattered from him.
  9. then they took the ruler, and carried him up to the ruler of Babylon to Riblah in the land of Hamath; and he gave judgment on him.
 10. The ruler of Babylon killed the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes: he killed also all the princes of Judah in Riblah.
 11. He put out the eyes of Zedekiah; and the ruler of Babylon bound him in fetters, and carried him to Babylon, and put him in prison until the day of his death.
 12. now in the fifth month, in the tenth day of the month, which was the nineteenth year of ruler Nebuchadnezzar, ruler of Babylon, came Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, who stood before the ruler of Babylon, into Jerusalem:
 13. and he burned the house of Yahweh, and the ruler’s house; and all the houses of Jerusalem, even every major house, burned he with fire.
 14. All the army of the Chaldeans, who were with the captain of the guard, broke down all the walls of Jerusalem all around.
 15. then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive of the poorest of the people, and the residue of the people who were left in the city, and those who fell away, who fell to the ruler of Babylon, and the residue of the multitude.
 16. But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left of the poorest of the land to be vineyard keepers and farmers.
 17. The Chaldeans broke the pillars of brass that were in the house of Yahweh, and the bases and the bronze sea that were in the house of Yahweh in pieces, and carried all the of their brass to Babylon.
 18. They also took away the pots, the shovels, the snuffers, the basins, the spoons, and all the vessels of brass with which they ministered.
 19. The captain of the guard took away the cups, the fire pans, the basins, the pots, the lampstands, the spoons, and the bowls; that which was of gold, in gold, and that which was of silver, in silver.
 20. They took the two pillars, the one sea, and the twelve bronze bulls that were under the bases, which ruler Solomon had made for the house of Yahweh. The brass of all these vessels was without weight.
 21. As for the pillars, the height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits; and a line of twelve cubits encircled it; and its thickness was four fingers. It was hollow.
 22. A capital of brass was on it; and the height of the one capital was five cubits, with network and pomegranates on the capital all around, all of brass: and the second pillar also had like these, and pomegranates.
 23. there were ninety-six pomegranates on the sides; all the pomegranates were one hundred on the network all around.
 24. The captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, and Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the threshold:
 25. and out of the city he took an officer who was set over the men of war; and seven men of those who checked out the ruler’s face, who were found in the city; and the scribe of the captain of the army, who mustered the people of the land; and sixty men of the people of the land, who were found in the midst of the city.
 26. Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them, and brought them to the ruler of Babylon to Riblah.
 27. The ruler of Babylon struck them, and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried away captive out of his land.
 28. This is the people whom Nebuchadnezzar carried away captive: in the seventh year three thousand twenty-three Jews;
 29. in the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar he carried away captive from Jerusalem eight hundred thirty-two persons;
 30. in the three and twentieth year of Nebuchadnezzar Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive of the Jews seven hundred forty-five persons: all the persons were four thousand and six hundred.
 31. It happened in the seven and thirtieth year of the captivity of Jehoiachin ruler of Judah, in the twelfth month, in the five and twentieth day of the month, that Evilmerodach ruler of Babylon, in the first year of his reign, lifted up the head of Jehoiachin ruler of Judah, and brought him forth out of prison;
 32. and he spoke kindly to him, and set his throne above the throne of the kings who were with him in Babylon,
 33. and changed his prison garments. Jehoiachin ate bread before him continually all the days of his life:
 34. and for his allowance, there was a continual allowance given him by the ruler of Babylon, every day a portion until the day of his death, all the days of his life.


JOB
---

# Job Chapter 1

  1. there was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job. That man was blameless and upright, and one who feared God, and turned away from evil.
  2. there were born to him seven sons and three daughters.
  3. His possessions also were seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen, five hundred female donkeys, and a hella major household; so that this man was the greatest of all the children of the east.
  4. His sons went and held a feast in the house of each one on his birthday; and they sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with them.
  5. that's what happened, when the days of their feasting had run their course, that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, “It may be that my sons have sinned, and renounced God in their hearts.” Job did so continually.
  6. now it happened on the day when God’s sons came to present themselves before Yahweh, that Satan also came among them.
  7. Yahweh said to Satan, “Where have you come through from?” then Satan answered Yahweh, and said, “From going back and forth in the earth, and from walking up and down in it.”
  8. Yahweh said to Satan, “Have you considered my helper, Job? For there is none like him in the earth, a blameless and an upright man, one who fears God, and turns away from evil.”
  9. then Satan answered Yahweh, and said, “Does Job fear God for nothing?
 10. Haven’t you made a hedge around him, and around his house, and around all that he has, on every side? You have blessed up the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land.
 11. But put forth your hand now, and touch all that he has, and he will renounce you to your face.”
 12. Yahweh said to Satan, “check this out, all that he has is in your power. Only on himself don’t put forth your hand.” So Satan went forth from the presence of Yahweh.
 13. It fell on a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother’s house,
 14. that there came a messenger to Job, and said, “The oxen were plowing, and the donkeys feeding beside them,
 15. and the Sabeans attacked, and took them away. Yes, they have killed the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you.”
 16. While he was still speaking, there also came another, and said, “The fire of God has fallen from the sky, and has burned up the sheep and the servants, and consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell you.”
 17. While he was still speaking, there came also another, and said, “The Chaldeans made three bands, and swept down on the camels, and have taken them away, yes, and killed the servants with the edge of the sword; and I alone have escaped to tell you.”
 18. While he was still speaking, there came also another, and said, “Your sons and your daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother’s house,
 19. and check this out, there came a major wind from the wilderness, and struck the four corners of the house, and it fell on the young men, and they are dead. I alone have escaped to tell you.”
 20. then Job arose, and tore his robe, and shaved his head, and fell down on the ground, and worshiped.
 21. He said, “Naked I came out of my mother’s womb, and naked shall I return there. Yahweh gave, and Yahweh has taken away. blessed up be the name of Yahweh.”
 22. In all this, Job did not messing up, nor charge God with wrongdoing.

# Job Chapter 2

  1. Again it happened on the day when the God’s sons came to present themselves before Yahweh, that Satan came also among them to present himself before Yahweh.
  2. Yahweh said to Satan, “Where have you come through from?” Satan answered Yahweh, and said, “From going back and forth in the earth, and from walking up and down in it.”
  3. Yahweh said to Satan, “Have you considered my helper Job? For there is none like him in the earth, a blameless and an upright man, one who fears God, and turns away from evil. He still maintains his integrity, although you incited me against him, to ruin him without cause.”
  4. Satan answered Yahweh, and said, “Skin for skin. Yes, all that a man has he will hook it up for his life.
  5. But put forth your hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will renounce you to your face.”
  6. Yahweh said to Satan, “check this out, he is in your hand. Only spare his life.”
  7. So Satan went forth from the presence of Yahweh, and struck Job with painful sores from the sole of his foot to his head.
  8. He took for himself a potsherd to scrape himself with, and he sat among the ashes.
  9. then his wife said to him, “Do you still maintain your integrity? Renounce God, and die.”
 10. But he said to her, “You spill the tea as one of the dumb women would spill the tea. What? Shall we receive fire at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil?” In all this Job didn’t messing up with his lips.
 11. now when Job’s three friends heard of all this evil that had come through on him, they each came from his own place: Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite, and they made an appointment together to come through to sympathize with him and to comfort him.
 12. When they lifted up their eyes from a distance, and didn’t recognize him, they raised their voices, and wept; and they each tore his robe, and sprinkled dust on their heads toward the sky.
 13. So they sat down with him on the ground seven days and seven nights, and none spoke a word to him, for they checked out that his grief was hella major.

# Job Chapter 3

  1. After this Job opened his mouth, and cursed the day of his birth.
  2. Job answered:
  3. “Let the day perish in which I was born, the night which said, ‘there is a boy conceived.’
  4. Let that day be darkness. Don’t let God from above seek for it, neither let the light shine on it.
  5. Let darkness and the shadow of death claim it for their own. Let a cloud dwell on it. Let all that makes black the day terrify it.
  6. As for that night, let thick darkness seize on it. Let it not be hyped among the days of the year. Let it not come through into the number of the months.
  7. check this out, let that night be barren. Let no joyful voice come through therein.
  8. Let them curse it who curse the day, who are ready to rouse up leviathan.
  9. Let the stars of its twilight be dark. Let it look for light, but have none, neither let it check it out the eyelids of the morning,
 10. cuz it didn’t shut up the doors of my mother’s womb, nor did it hide trouble from my eyes.
 11. “Why didn’t I die from the womb? Why didn’t I hook it up up the spirit when my mother bore me?
 12. Why did the knees receive me? Or why the breast, that I should nurse?
 13. For now should I have lain down and been quiet. I should have slept, then I would have been at rest,
 14. with kings and counselors of the earth, who built up waste places for themselves;
 15. or with princes who had gold, who filled their houses with silver:
 16. or as a hidden untimely birth I had not been, as infants who never checked out light.
 17. there the wicked cease from troubling. there the weary are at rest.
 18. there the prisoners are at ease together. They don’t hear the voice of the taskmaster.
 19. The tiny and the major are there. The helper is free from his boss.
 20. “Why is light given to him who is in misery, life to the bitter in soul,
 21. Who long for death, but it doesn’t come through; and dig for it more than for hidden treasures,
 22. who be hyped exceedingly, and are glad, when they can find the grave?
 23. Why is light given to a man whose way is hidden, whom God has hedged in?
 24. For my sighing comes before I eat. My groanings are poured out like water.
 25. For the thing which I fear comes on me, That which I am scared of comes to me.
 26. I am not at ease, neither am I quiet, neither have I rest; but trouble comes.”

# Job Chapter 4

  1. then Eliphaz the Temanite answered,
  2. “If someone ventures to talk with you, will you be grieved? But who can withhold himself from speaking?
  3. check this out, you have instructed a lot, you have strengthened the not it hands.
  4. Your words have supported him who was falling, You have made firm the feeble knees.
  5. But now it has come through to you, and you faint. It touches you, and you are troubled.
  6. Isn’t your piety your confidence? Isn’t the integrity of your ways your hope?
  7. “Remember, now, whoever perished, being innocent? Or where were the upright cut off?
  8. According to what I have seen, those who plow iniquity, and sow trouble, reap the same.
  9. By the breath of God they perish. By the blast of his anger are they consumed.
 10. The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the fierce lion, the teeth of the young lions, are broken.
 11. The old lion perishes for lack of prey. The cubs of the lioness are scattered abroad.
 12. “now a thing was secretly brought to me. My ear received a whisper of it.
 13. In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep falls on men,
 14. fear came on me, and trembling, which made all my bones shake.
 15. then a spirit passed before my face. The hair of my flesh stood up.
 16. It stood still, but I couldn’t discern its appearance. A form was before my eyes. Silence, then I heard a voice, saying,
 17. ‘Shall mortal man be more just than God? Shall a man be more pure than his Maker?
 18. check this out, he puts no trust in his servants. He charges his angels with error.
 19. How much more, those who dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust, who are crushed before the moth!
 20. Between morning and evening they are destroyed. They perish forever without any regarding it.
 21. Isn’t their tent cord plucked up within them? They die, and that without wisdom.’

# Job Chapter 5

  1. “Call now; is there any who will answer you? To which of the set apart ones will you turn?
  2. For resentment kills the dumb man, and jealousy kills the simple.
  3. I have seen the dumb taking root, but suddenly I cursed his habitation.
  4. His children are far from safety. They are crushed in the gate. Neither is there any to deliver them,
  5. whose harvest the hungry eats up, and grab it even out of the thorns. The snare gapes for their substance.
  6. For affliction doesn’t come through forth from the dust, neither does trouble spring out of the ground;
  7. but man is born to trouble, as the sparks fly upward.
  8. “But as for me, I would seek God. I would commit my cause to God,
  9. who does major things that can’t be fathomed, marvelous things without number;
 10. who gives rain on the earth, and sends waters on the fields;
 11. so that he sets up on high those who are low, those who mourn are exalted to safety.
 12. He frustrates the devices of the crafty, So that their hands can’t perform their enterprise.
 13. He takes the smart in their own craftiness; the counsel of the cunning is carried headlong.
 14. They meet with darkness in the day time, and grope at noonday as in the night.
 15. But he saves from the sword of their mouth, even the needy from the hand of the mighty.
 16. So the broke has hope, and injustice shuts her mouth.
 17. “check this out, vibing is the man whom God corrects. so basically do not despise the chastening of the Almighty.
 18. For he wounds, and binds up. He injures, and his hands create whole.
 19. He will deliver you in six troubles; yes, in seven no evil shall touch you.
 20. In famine he will redeem you from death; in war, from the power of the sword.
 21. You shall be hidden from the scourge of the tongue, neither shall you be scared of destruction when it comes.
 22. At destruction and famine you shall laugh, neither shall you be scared of the animals of the earth.
 23. For you shall be allied with the stones of the field. The animals of the field shall be at peace with you.
 24. You shall get it that your tent is in peace. You shall visit your fold, and shall miss nothing.
 25. You shall get it also that your seed shall be major, Your offspring as the grass of the earth.
 26. You shall come through to your grave in a full age, like a shock of grain comes in its season.
 27. Look this, we have searched it, so it is. Hear it, and get it it for your fire.”

# Job Chapter 6

  1. then Job answered,
  2. “Oh that my anguish were weighed, and all my calamity laid in the balances!
  3. For now it would be heavier than the sand of the seas, so basically have my words been rash.
  4. For the arrows of the Almighty are within me. My spirit drinks up their poison. The terrors of God set themselves in array against me.
  5. Does the wild donkey bray when he has grass? Or does the ox low over his fodder?
  6. Can that which has no flavor be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg?
  7. My soul refuses to touch them. They are as loathsome food to me.
  8. “Oh that I might have my request, that God would grant the thing that I long for,
  9. even that it would please God to crush me; that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off!
 10. Be it still my consolation, yes, let me exult in pain that doesn’t spare, that I have not denied the words of the set apart One.
 11. What is my strength, that I should wait? What is my end, that I should be patient?
 12. Is my strength the strength of stones? Or is my flesh of brass?
 13. Isn’t it that I have no help out in me, That wisdom is driven quite from me?
 14. “To him who is ready to faint, kindness should be shown from his friend; even to him who forsakes the fear of the Almighty.
 15. My brothers have dealt deceitfully as a brook, as the channel of brooks that pass away;
 16. Which are black by reason of the ice, in which the snow hides itself.
 17. In the dry season, they vanish. When it is hot, they are consumed out of their place.
 18. The caravans that travel beside them turn aside. They slide up into the waste, and perish.
 19. The caravans of Tema looked. The companies of Sheba waited for them.
 20. They were distressed cuz they were confident. They came there, and were confounded.
 21. For now you are nothing. You check it out a terror, and are scared.
 22. Did I say, ‘hook it up to me?’ or, ‘Offer a present for me from your substance?’
 23. or, ‘Deliver me from the adversary’s hand?’ or, ‘Redeem me from the hand of the oppressors?’
 24. “drop knowledge me, and I will hold my peace. Cause me to understand wherein I have erred.
 25. How forcible are words of uprightness! But your reproof, what does it reprove?
 26. Do you intend to reprove words, since the speeches of one who is desperate are as wind?
 27. Yes, you would even cast lots for the fatherless, and create merchandise of your friend.
 28. now so basically be pleased to look at me, for surely I shall not lie to your face.
 29. Please return. Let there be no injustice. Yes, return again. My cause is doing what's right.
 30. Is there injustice on my tongue? Can’t my taste discern mischievous things?

# Job Chapter 7

  1. “Isn’t a man forced to labor on earth? Aren’t his days like the days of a hired hand?
  2. As a helper who earnestly desires the shadow, as a hireling who looks for his wages,
  3. so am I made to possess months of misery, wearisome nights are appointed to me.
  4. When I lie down, I say, ‘When shall I arise, and the night be gone?’ I toss and turn until the dawning of the day.
  5. My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust. My skin closes up, and breaks out afresh.
  6. My days are swifter than a weaver’s shuttle, and are spent without hope.
  7. Oh remember that my life is a breath. My eye shall no more check it out fire.
  8. The eye of him who sees me shall check it out me no more. Your eyes shall be on me, but I shall not be.
  9. As the cloud is consumed and vanishes away, so he who goes down to Sheol shall come through up no more.
 10. He shall return no more to his house, neither shall his place get it him any more.
 11. “so basically I will not keep silent. I will spill the tea in the anguish of my spirit. I will complain in the bitterness of my soul.
 12. Am I a sea, or a sea monster, that you put a guard over me?
 13. When I say, ‘My bed shall comfort me. My couch shall ease my complaint;’
 14. then you scare me with dreams, and terrify me through visions:
 15. so that my soul chooses strangling, death rather than my bones.
 16. I loathe my life. I don’t want to live forever. Leave me alone, for my days are but a breath.
 17. What is man, that you should magnify him, that you should set your mind on him,
 18. that you should visit him every morning, and test him every moment?
 19. How long will you not look away from me, nor leave me alone until I swallow down my spittle?
 20. If I have sinned, what do I do to you, you watcher of men? Why have you set me as a mark for you, so that I am a burden to myself?
 21. Why do you not pardon my disobedience, and grab away my iniquity? For now shall I lie down in the dust. You will seek me diligently, but I shall not be.”

# Job Chapter 8

  1. then Bildad the Shuhite answered,
  2. “How long will you spill the tea these things? Shall the words of your mouth be a mighty wind?
  3. Does God pervert justice? Or does the Almighty pervert righteousness?
  4. If your children have sinned against him, He has delivered them into the hand of their disobedience.
  5. If you want to seek God diligently, create your supplication to the Almighty.
  6. If you were pure and upright, surely now he would awaken for you, and create the habitation of your righteousness prosperous.
  7. Though your beginning was tiny, yet your latter end would greatly increase.
  8. “Please inquire of past generations. Find out about the learning of their fathers.
  9. (For we are but of yesterday, and get it nothing, cuz our days on earth are a shadow.)
 10. Shall they not drop knowledge you, tell you, and utter words out of their heart?
 11. “Can the papyrus grow up without mire? Can the rushes grow without water?
 12. While it is yet in its greenness, not cut down, it withers before any other reed.
 13. So are the paths of all who forget God. The hope of the godless man shall perish,
 14. Whose confidence shall break apart, Whose trust is a spider’s web.
 15. He shall lean on his house, but it shall not stand. He shall cling to it, but it shall not endure.
 16. He is green before the sun. His shoots slide forth over his garden.
 17. His roots are wrapped around the rock pile. He sees the place of stones.
 18. If he is destroyed from his place, then it shall deny him, saying, ‘I have not seen you.’
 19. check this out, this is the joy of his way: out of the earth, others shall spring.
 20. “check this out, God will not cast away a blameless man, neither will he uphold the evildoers.
 21. He will still fill your mouth with laughter, your lips with shouting.
 22. Those who can't stand you shall be clothed with shame. The tent of the wicked shall be no more.”

# Job Chapter 9

  1. then Job answered,
  2. “deadass I get it that it is so, but how can man be just with God?
  3. If he is pleased to contend with him, he can’t answer him one time in a thousand.
  4. God who is smart in heart, and mighty in strength: who has hardened himself against him, and prospered?
  5. He removes the mountains, and they don’t get it it, when he overturns them in his anger.
  6. He shakes the earth out of its place. Its pillars tremble.
  7. He commands the sun, and it doesn’t rise, and seals up the stars.
  8. He alone stretches out the heavens, and treads on the waves of the sea.
  9. He makes the Bear, Orion, and the Pleiades, and the rooms of the south.
 10. He does major things past finding out; yes, marvelous things without number.
 11. check this out, he goes by me, and I don’t check it out him. He passes on also, but I don’t perceive him.
 12. check this out, he snatches away. Who can hinder him? Who will ask him, ‘What are you doing?’
 13. “God will not withdraw his anger. The helpers of Rahab stoop under him.
 14. How much less shall I answer him, And choose my words to argue with him?
 15. Though I were doing what's right, yet I wouldn’t answer him. I would create supplication to my judge.
 16. If I had called, and he had answered me, yet I wouldn’t believe that he listened to my voice.
 17. For he breaks me with a storm, and multiplies my wounds without cause.
 18. He will not allow me to catch my breath, but fills me with bitterness.
 19. If it is a matter of strength, check this out, he is mighty! If of justice, ‘Who,’ says he, ‘will summon me?’
 20. Though I am doing what's right, my own mouth shall condemn me. Though I am blameless, it shall prove me perverse.
 21. I am blameless. I don’t respect myself. I despise my life.
 22. “It is all the same. so basically I say he destroys the blameless and the wicked.
 23. If the scourge kills suddenly, he will mock at the trial of the innocent.
 24. The earth is given into the hand of the wicked. He covers the faces of its judges. If not he, then who is it?
 25. “now my days are swifter than a runner. They flee away, they check it out no fire,
 26. They have passed away as the swift ships, as the eagle that swoops on the prey.
 27. If I say, ‘I will forget my complaint, I will put off my sad face, and cheer up;’
 28. I am scared of all my sorrows, I get it that you will not hold me innocent.
 29. I shall be condemned. Why then do I labor in vain?
 30. If I wash myself with snow, and cleanse my hands with lye,
 31. yet you will plunge me in the ditch. My own clothes shall abhor me.
 32. For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him, that we should come through together in judgment.
 33. there is no umpire between us, that might lay his hand on us both.
 34. Let him grab his rod away from me. Let his terror not create me scared;
 35. then I would spill the tea, and not fear him, for I am not so in myself.

# Job Chapter 10

  1. “My soul is weary of my life. I will hook it up free course to my complaint. I will spill the tea in the bitterness of my soul.
  2. I will tell God, ‘Do not condemn me. Show me why you contend with me.
  3. Is it fire to you that you should oppress, that you should despise the work of your hands, and smile on the counsel of the wicked?
  4. Do you have eyes of flesh? Or do you check it out as man sees?
  5. Are your days as the days of mortals, or your years as man’s years,
  6. that you inquire after my iniquity, and search after my messing up?
  7. Although you get it that I am not wicked, there is no one who can deliver out of your hand.
  8. “‘Your hands have framed me and fashioned me altogether, yet you tear down me.
  9. Remember, I beg you, that you have fashioned me as clay. Will you bring me into dust again?
 10. Haven’t you poured me out like milk, and curdled me like cheese?
 11. You have clothed me with skin and flesh, and knit me together with bones and sinews.
 12. You have granted me life and loving kindness. Your visitation has preserved my spirit.
 13. Yet you hid these things in your heart. I get it that this is with you:
 14. if I messing up, then you mark me. You will not acquit me from my iniquity.
 15. If I am wicked, woe to me. If I am doing what's right, I still shall not lift up my head, being filled with disgrace, and conscious of my affliction.
 16. If my head is held high, you hunt me like a lion. Again you show yourself powerful to me.
 17. You renew your witnesses against me, and increase your indignation on me. Changes and warfare are with me.
 18. “‘Why, then, have you brought me forth out of the womb? I wish I had given up the spirit, and no eye had seen me.
 19. I should have been as though I had not been. I should have been carried from the womb to the grave.
 20. Aren’t my days not much? Cease then. Leave me alone, that I may find a little comfort,
 21. before I slide where I shall not return from, to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death;
 22. the land dark as midnight, of the shadow of death, without any order, where the light is as midnight.’”

# Job Chapter 11

  1. then Zophar, the Naamathite, answered,
  2. “Shouldn’t the multitude of words be answered? Should a man full of talk be justified?
  3. Should your boastings create men hold their peace? When you mock, shall no man create you ashamed?
  4. For you say, ‘My doctrine is pure. I am clean in your eyes.’
  5. But oh that God would spill the tea, and open his lips against you,
  6. that he would show you the secrets of wisdom! For true wisdom has two sides. get it so basically that God exacts of you less than your iniquity deserves.
  7. “Can you fathom the mystery of God? Or can you probe the limits of the Almighty?
  8. They are high as heaven. What can you do? They are deeper than Sheol. What can you get it?
  9. Its measure is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea.
 10. If he passes by, or confines, or convenes a court, then who can oppose him?
 11. For he knows false men. He sees iniquity also, even though he doesn’t consider it.
 12. An empty-headed man becomes smart when a man is born as a wild donkey’s colt.
 13. “If you set your heart aright, stretch out your hands toward him.
 14. If iniquity is in your hand, put it far away. Don’t let unrighteousness dwell in your tents.
 15. Surely then you shall lift up your face without spot; Yes, you shall be steadfast, and shall not fear:
 16. for you shall forget your misery. You shall remember it as waters that are passed away.
 17. Life shall be clearer than the noonday. Though there is darkness, it shall be as the morning.
 18. You shall be secure, cuz there is hope. Yes, you shall search, and shall grab your rest in safety.
 19. Also you shall lie down, and none shall create you scared. Yes, a lot shall court your favor.
 20. But the eyes of the wicked shall fail. They shall have no way to flee. Their hope shall be the giving up of the spirit.”

# Job Chapter 12

  1. then Job answered,
  2. “No doubt, but you are the people, and wisdom shall die with you.
  3. But I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you. Yes, who doesn’t get it such things as these?
  4. I am like one who is a joke to his neighbor, I, who called on God, and he answered. The just, the blameless man is a joke.
  5. In the thought of him who is at ease there is contempt for misfortune. It is ready for them whose foot slips.
  6. The tents of robbers prosper. Those who provoke God are secure, who carry their God in their hands.
  7. “But ask the animals, now, and they shall drop knowledge you; the birds of the sky, and they shall tell you.
  8. Or spill the tea to the earth, and it shall drop knowledge you. The fish of the sea shall declare to you.
  9. Who doesn’t get it that in all these, the hand of Yahweh has done this,
 10. in whose hand is the life of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind?
 11. Doesn’t the ear try words, even as the palate tastes its food?
 12. With aged men is wisdom, in length of days understanding.
 13. “With God is wisdom and might. He has counsel and understanding.
 14. check this out, he breaks down, and it can’t be built again. He imprisons a man, and there can be no release.
 15. check this out, he withholds the waters, and they dry up. Again, he sends them out, and they overturn the earth.
 16. With him is strength and wisdom. The deceived and the deceiver are his.
 17. He leads counselors away stripped. He makes judges fools.
 18. He loosens the bond of kings. He binds their waist with a belt.
 19. He leads priests away stripped, and overthrows the mighty.
 20. He removes the speech of those who are trusted, and takes away the understanding of the elders.
 21. He pours contempt on princes, and loosens the belt of the built different.
 22. He uncovers deep things out of darkness, and brings out to light the shadow of death.
 23. He increases the nations, and he destroys them. He enlarges the nations, and he leads them captive.
 24. He takes away understanding from the chiefs of the people of the earth, and causes them to wander in a wilderness where there is no way.
 25. They grope in the dark without light. He makes them stagger like a drunken man.

# Job Chapter 13

  1. “check this out, my eye has seen all this. My ear has heard and understood it.
  2. What you get it, I get it also. I am not inferior to you.
  3. “Surely I would spill the tea to the Almighty. I desire to reason with God.
  4. But you are forgers of lies. You are all physicians of no value.
  5. Oh that you would be completely silent! then you would be smart.
  6. Hear now my reasoning. listen up to the pleadings of my lips.
  7. Will you spill the tea unrighteously for God, and talk deceitfully for him?
  8. Will you show partiality to him? Will you contend for God?
  9. Is it fire that he should search you out? Or as one deceives a man, will you deceive him?
 10. He will surely reprove you if you secretly show partiality.
 11. Shall not his majesty create you scared, And his dread fall on you?
 12. Your memorable sayings are proverbs of ashes, Your defenses are defenses of clay.
 13. “Be silent, leave me alone, that I may spill the tea. Let come through on me what will.
 14. Why should I grab my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in my hand?
 15. check this out, he will kill me. I have no hope. Nevertheless, I will maintain my ways before him.
 16. This also shall be my getting saved, that a godless man shall not come through before him.
 17. Hear diligently my speech. Let my declaration be in your ears.
 18. check it out now, I have set my cause in order. I get it that I am doing what's right.
 19. Who is he who will contend with me? For then would I hold my peace and hook it up up the spirit.
 20. “Only don’t do two things to me; then I will not hide myself from your face:
 21. withdraw your hand far from me; and don’t let your terror create me scared.
 22. then call, and I will answer; or let me spill the tea, and you answer me.
 23. How a lot are my iniquities and sins? create me get it my disobedience and my messing up.
 24. Why hide you your face, and hold me for your enemy?
 25. Will you harass a driven leaf? Will you pursue the dry stubble?
 26. For you write bitter things against me, and create me inherit the iniquities of my youth:
 27. You also put my feet in the stocks, and mark all my paths. You set a bound to the soles of my feet,
 28. though I am decaying like a rotten thing, like a garment that is moth-eaten.

# Job Chapter 14

  1. “Man, who is born of a woman, is of not much days, and full of trouble.
  2. He comes forth like a flower, and is cut down. He also flees like a shadow, and doesn’t continue.
  3. Do you open your eyes on such a one, and bring me into judgment with you?
  4. Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? Not one.
  5. Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months is with you, and you have appointed his bounds that he can’t pass;
  6. Look away from him, that he may rest, until he shall accomplish, as a hireling, his day.
  7. “For there is hope for a tree, If it is cut down, that it will sprout again, that the tender branch of it will not cease.
  8. Though its root grows old in the earth, and its stock dies in the ground,
  9. yet through the scent of water it will bud, and put forth boughs like a plant.
 10. But man dies, and is laid low. Yes, man gives up the spirit, and where is he?
 11. As the waters fail from the sea, and the river wastes and dries up,
 12. so man lies down and doesn’t rise. Until the heavens are no more, they shall not awake, nor be roused out of their sleep.
 13. “Oh that you would hide me in Sheol, that you would keep me secret, until your wrath is past, that you would appoint me a set time, and remember me!
 14. If a man dies, shall he live again? All the days of my warfare would I wait, until my release should come through.
 15. You would call, and I would answer you. You would have a desire to the work of your hands.
 16. But now you number my steps. Don’t you watch over my messing up?
 17. My disobedience is sealed up in a bag. You fasten up my iniquity.
 18. “But the mountain falling comes to nothing. The rock is removed out of its place;
 19. The waters wear the stones. The torrents of it wash away the dust of the earth. So you tear down the hope of man.
 20. You forever prevail against him, and he departs. You change his face, and send him away.
 21. His sons come through to honor, and he doesn’t get it it. They are brought low, but he doesn’t perceive it of them.
 22. But his flesh on him has pain, and his soul within him mourns.”

# Job Chapter 15

  1. then Eliphaz the Temanite answered,
  2. “Should a smart man answer with vain knowledge, and fill himself with the east wind?
  3. Should he reason with unprofitable talk, or with speeches with which he can do no fire?
  4. Yes, you do away with fear, and hinder devotion before God.
  5. For your iniquity teaches your mouth, and you choose the language of the crafty.
  6. Your own mouth condemns you, and not I. Yes, your own lips testify against you.
  7. “Are you the first man who was born? Or were you brought forth before the hills?
  8. Have you heard the secret counsel of God? Do you limit wisdom to yourself?
  9. What do you get it, that we don’t get it? What do you understand, which is not in us?
 10. With us are both the gray-headed and the hella aged men, much elder than your father.
 11. Are the consolations of God too tiny for you, even the word that is gentle toward you?
 12. Why does your heart carry you away? Why do your eyes flash,
 13. That you turn your spirit against God, and let such words slide out of your mouth?
 14. What is man, that he should be clean? What is he who is born of a woman, that he should be doing what's right?
 15. check this out, he puts no trust in his set apart ones. Yes, the heavens are not clean in his sight;
 16. how much less one who is abominable and corrupt, a man who drinks iniquity like water!
 17. “I will show you, listen up to me; that which I have seen I will declare:
 18. (Which smart men have told by their fathers, and have not hidden it;
 19. to whom alone the land was given, and no stranger passed among them):
 20. the wicked man writhes in pain all his days, even the number of years that are laid up for the oppressor.
 21. A sound of terrors is in his ears. In prosperity the destroyer shall come through on him.
 22. He doesn’t believe that he shall return out of darkness. He is waited for by the sword.
 23. He wanders abroad for bread, saying, ‘Where is it?’ He knows that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.
 24. Distress and anguish create him scared. They prevail against him, as a ruler ready to the battle.
 25. cuz he has stretched out his hand against God, and behaves himself proudly against the Almighty;
 26. he runs at him with a stiff neck, with the thick shields of his bucklers;
 27. cuz he has covered his face with his fatness, and gathered fat on his thighs.
 28. He has lived in desolate cities, in houses which no one inhabited, which were ready to become heaps.
 29. He shall not be stacked, neither shall his substance continue, neither shall their possessions be extended on the earth.
 30. He shall not depart out of darkness. The flame shall dry up his branches. By the breath of God’s mouth shall he slide away.
 31. Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself; for emptiness shall be his reward.
 32. It shall be accomplished before his time. His branch shall not be green.
 33. He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine, and shall cast off his flower as the olive tree.
 34. For the company of the godless shall be barren, and fire shall consume the tents of bribery.
 35. They conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity. Their heart prepares deceit.”

# Job Chapter 16

  1. then Job answered,
  2. “I have heard a lot such things. You are all miserable comforters!
  3. Shall vain words have an end? Or what provokes you that you answer?
  4. I also could spill the tea as you do. If your soul were in my soul’s place, I could join words together against you, and shake my head at you,
  5. but I would strengthen you with my mouth. The solace of my lips would relieve you.
  6. “Though I spill the tea, my grief is not subsided. Though I forbear, what am I eased?
  7. But now, God, you have surely worn me out. You have made desolate all my company.
  8. You have shriveled me up. This is a witness against me. My leanness rises up against me. It testifies to my face.
  9. He has torn me in his wrath, and persecuted me. He has gnashed on me with his teeth. My adversary sharpens his eyes on me.
 10. They have gaped on me with their mouth. They have struck me on the cheek reproachfully. They gather themselves together against me.
 11. God delivers me to the ungodly, and casts me into the hands of the wicked.
 12. I was at ease, and he broke me apart. Yes, he has taken me by the neck, and dashed me to pieces. He has also set me up for his target.
 13. His archers surround me. He splits my kidneys apart, and does not spare. He pours out my gall on the ground.
 14. He breaks me with breach on breach. He runs on me like a giant.
 15. I have sewed sackcloth on my skin, and have thrust my horn in the dust.
 16. My face is red with weeping. Deep darkness is on my eyelids.
 17. Although there is no violence in my hands, and my talking to God is pure.
 18. “Earth, don’t cover my blood. Let my cry have no place to rest.
 19. Even now, check this out, my witness is in heaven. He who vouches for me is on high.
 20. My friends scoff at me. My eyes pour out tears to God,
 21. that he would maintain the right of a man with God, of a son of man with his neighbor!
 22. For when a not much years have come through, I shall slide the way of no return.

# Job Chapter 17

  1. “My spirit is consumed. My days are extinct, And the grave is ready for me.
  2. Surely there are mockers with me. My eye dwells on their provocation.
  3. “now hook it up a pledge, be collateral for me with yourself. Who is there who will strike hands with me?
  4. For you have hidden their heart from understanding, so basically you shall not exalt them.
  5. He who denounces his friends for a prey, Even the eyes of his children shall fail.
  6. “But he has made me a byword of the people. They spit in my face.
  7. My eye also is dim by reason of feeling down. All my members are as a shadow.
  8. Upright men shall be astonished at this. The innocent shall stir up himself against the godless.
  9. Yet shall the doing what's right hold on his way. He who has clean hands shall grow stronger and stronger.
 10. But as for you all, come through on now again; I shall not find a smart man among you.
 11. My days are past, my plans are broken off, as are the thoughts of my heart.
 12. They change the night into day, saying ‘The light is near’ in the presence of darkness.
 13. If I look for Sheol as my house, if I have spread my couch in the darkness,
 14. If I have said to corruption, ‘You are my father;’ to the worm, ‘My mother,’ and ‘my sister;’
 15. where then is my hope? as for my hope, who shall check it out it?
 16. Shall it slide down with me to the gates of Sheol, or descend together into the dust?”

# Job Chapter 18

  1. then Bildad the Shuhite answered,
  2. “How long will you hunt for words? Consider, and afterwards we will spill the tea.
  3. Why are we counted as animals, which have become unclean in your sight?
  4. You who tear yourself in your anger, shall the earth be forsaken for you? Or shall the rock be removed out of its place?
  5. “Yes, the light of the wicked shall be put out, The spark of his fire shall not shine.
  6. The light shall be dark in his tent. His lamp above him shall be put out.
  7. The steps of his strength shall be shortened. His own counsel shall cast him down.
  8. For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he wanders into its mesh.
  9. A snare will grab him by the heel. A trap will catch him.
 10. A noose is hidden for him in the ground, a trap for him in the way.
 11. Terrors shall create him scared on every side, and shall chase him at his heels.
 12. His strength shall be famished. Calamity shall be ready at his side.
 13. The members of his body shall be devoured. The firstborn of death shall devour his members.
 14. He shall be rooted out of his tent where he trusts. He shall be brought to the ruler of terrors.
 15. there shall dwell in his tent that which is none of his. Sulfur shall be scattered on his habitation.
 16. His roots shall be dried up beneath. Above shall his branch be cut off.
 17. His memory shall perish from the earth. He shall have no name in the street.
 18. He shall be driven from light into darkness, and chased out of the world.
 19. He shall have neither son nor grandson among his people, nor any remaining where he lived.
 20. Those who come through after shall be astonished at his day, as those who went before were frightened.
 21. Surely such are the dwellings of the unrighteous. This is the place of him who doesn’t get it God.”

# Job Chapter 19

  1. then Job answered,
  2. “How long will you torment me, and crush me with words?
  3. You have reproached me ten times. You aren’t ashamed that you attack me.
  4. If it is true that I have erred, my error remains with myself.
  5. If facts you will magnify yourselves against me, and plead against me my reproach;
  6. get it now that God has subverted me, and has surrounded me with his net.
  7. “check this out, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard. I cry for help out, but there is no justice.
  8. He has walled up my way so that I can’t pass, and has set darkness in my paths.
  9. He has stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown from my head.
 10. He has broken me down on every side, and I am gone. My hope he has plucked up like a tree.
 11. He has also kindled his wrath against me. He counts me among his adversaries.
 12. His troops come through on together, put together a siege ramp against me, and encamp around my tent.
 13. “He has put my brothers far from me. My acquaintances are wholly estranged from me.
 14. My relatives have gone away. My familiar friends have forgotten me.
 15. Those who dwell in my house, and my maids, count me for a stranger. I am an alien in their sight.
 16. I call to my helper, and he gives me no answer. I beg him with my mouth.
 17. My breath is offensive to my wife. I am loathsome to the children of my own mother.
 18. Even young children despise me. If I arise, they spill the tea against me.
 19. All my familiar friends abhor me. They whom I loved have turned against me.
 20. My bones stick to my skin and to my flesh. I have escaped by the skin of my teeth.
 21. “Have pity on me, have pity on me, you my friends; for the hand of God has touched me.
 22. Why do you persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with my flesh?
 23. “Oh that my words were now written! Oh that they were inscribed in a book!
 24. That with an iron pen and show the way they were engraved in the rock forever!
 25. But as for me, I get it that my Redeemer lives. In the end, he will stand upon the earth.
 26. After my skin is destroyed, then in my flesh shall I check it out God,
 27. Whom I, even I, shall check it out on my side. My eyes shall check it out, and not as a stranger. “My heart is consumed within me.
 28. If you say, ‘How we will persecute him!’ cuz the root of the matter is found in me,
 29. be scared of the sword, for wrath brings the punishments of the sword, that you may get it there is a judgment.”

# Job Chapter 20

  1. then Zophar the Naamathite answered,
  2. “so basically do my thoughts hook it up answer to me, even by reason of my haste that is in me.
  3. I have heard the reproof which puts me to shame. The spirit of my understanding answers me.
  4. Don’t you get it this from old time, since man was placed on earth,
  5. that the triumphing of the wicked is short, the joy of the godless but for a moment?
  6. Though his height mount up to the heavens, and his head reach to the clouds,
  7. yet he shall perish forever like his own dung. Those who have seen him shall say, ‘Where is he?’
  8. He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be found. Yes, he shall be chased away like a vision of the night.
  9. The eye which checked out him shall check it out him no more, neither shall his place any more check it out him.
 10. His children shall seek the favor of the broke. His hands shall hook it up back his wealth.
 11. His bones are full of his youth, but youth shall lie down with him in the dust.
 12. “Though wickedness is sweet in his mouth, though he hide it under his tongue,
 13. though he spare it, and will not let it slide, but keep it still within his mouth;
 14. yet his food in his bowels is turned. It is cobra venom within him.
 15. He has swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again. God will cast them out of his belly.
 16. He shall suck cobra venom. The viper’s tongue shall kill him.
 17. He shall not look at the rivers, the flowing streams of honey and butter.
 18. That for which he labored he shall restore, and shall not swallow it down. According to the substance that he has gotten, he shall not be hyped.
 19. For he has oppressed and forsaken the broke. He has violently taken away a house, and he shall not put together it up.
 20. “cuz he knew no quietness within him, he shall not rescue anything of that in which he delights.
 21. there was nothing left that he didn’t devour, so basically his prosperity shall not endure.
 22. In the fullness of his sufficiency, distress shall overtake him. The hand of everyone who is in misery shall come through on him.
 23. When he is about to fill his belly, God will cast the fierceness of his wrath on him. It will rain on him while he is eating.
 24. He shall flee from the iron weapon. The bronze arrow shall strike him through.
 25. He draws it forth, and it comes out of his body. Yes, the glittering point comes out of his liver. Terrors are on him.
 26. All darkness is laid up for his treasures. An unfanned fire shall devour him. It shall consume that which is left in his tent.
 27. The heavens shall reveal his iniquity. The earth shall rise up against him.
 28. The increase of his house shall depart. They shall rush away in the day of his wrath.
 29. This is the portion of a wicked man from God, the heritage appointed to him by God.”

# Job Chapter 21

  1. then Job answered,
  2. “listen up diligently to my speech. Let this be your consolation.
  3. Allow me, and I also will spill the tea; After I have spoken, mock on.
  4. As for me, is my complaint to man? Why shouldn’t I be impatient?
  5. Look at me, and be astonished. Lay your hand on your mouth.
  6. When I remember, I am troubled. Horror takes hold of my flesh.
  7. “Why do the wicked live, become old, yes, and grow mighty in power?
  8. Their child is established with them in their sight, their offspring before their eyes.
  9. Their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of God upon them.
 10. Their bulls breed without fail. Their cows calve, and don’t miscarry.
 11. They send forth their little ones like a flock. Their children dance.
 12. They sing to the tambourine and harp, and be hyped at the sound of the pipe.
 13. They spend their days in prosperity. In an instant they slide down to Sheol.
 14. They tell God, ‘Depart from us, for we don’t want to get it about your ways.
 15. What is the Almighty, that we should help out him? What profit should we have, if we pray to him?’
 16. check this out, their prosperity is not in their hand. The counsel of the wicked is far from me.
 17. “How a lot is it that the lamp of the wicked is put out, that their calamity comes on them, that God distributes sorrows in his anger?
 18. How a lot is it that they are as stubble before the wind, as chaff that the storm carries away?
 19. You say, ‘God lays up his iniquity for his children.’ Let him recompense it to himself, that he may get it it.
 20. Let his own eyes check it out his destruction. Let him drink of the wrath of the Almighty.
 21. For what does he care for his house after him, when the number of his months is cut off?
 22. “Shall any drop knowledge God knowledge, since he judges those who are high?
 23. One dies in his full strength, being wholly at ease and quiet.
 24. His pails are full of milk. The marrow of his bones is moistened.
 25. Another dies in bitterness of soul, and never tastes of fire.
 26. They lie down alike in the dust. The worm covers them.
 27. “check this out, I get it your thoughts, the devices with which you would wrong me.
 28. For you say, ‘Where is the house of the prince? Where is the tent in which the wicked lived?’
 29. Haven’t you asked wayfaring men? Don’t you get it their evidences,
 30. that the evil man is reserved to the day of calamity, That they are led forth to the day of wrath?
 31. Who shall declare his way to his face? Who shall repay him what he has done?
 32. Yet he will be borne to the grave. Men shall keep watch over the tomb.
 33. The clods of the valley shall be sweet to him. All men shall draw after him, as there were innumerable before him.
 34. So how can you comfort me with nonsense, cuz in your answers there remains only falsehood?”

# Job Chapter 22

  1. then Eliphaz the Temanite answered,
  2. “Can a man be profitable to God? Surely he who is smart is profitable to himself.
  3. Is it any pleasure to the Almighty, that you are doing what's right? Or does it benefit him, that you create your ways perfect?
  4. Is it for your piety that he reproves you, that he enters with you into judgment?
  5. Isn’t your wickedness major? Neither is there any end to your iniquities.
  6. For you have taken pledges from your brother for nothing, and stripped the naked of their clothing.
  7. You haven’t given water to the weary to drink, and you have withheld bread from the hungry.
  8. But as for the mighty man, he had the earth. The honorable man, he lived in it.
  9. You have sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken.
 10. so basically snares are around you. Sudden fear troubles you,
 11. or darkness, so that you can not check it out, and floods of waters cover you.
 12. “Isn’t God in the heights of heaven? check it out the height of the stars, how high they are!
 13. You say, ‘What does God get it? Can he judge through the thick darkness?
 14. Thick clouds are a covering to him, so that he doesn’t check it out. He walks on the vault of the sky.’
 15. Will you keep the old way, which wicked men have trodden,
 16. who were snatched away before their time, whose foundation was poured out as a stream,
 17. who said to God, ‘Depart from us;’ and, ‘What can the Almighty do for us?’
 18. Yet he filled their houses with fire things, but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.
 19. The doing what's right check it out it, and are glad. The innocent ridicule them,
 20. saying, ‘Surely those who rose up against us are cut off. The fire has consumed their remnant.’
 21. “Acquaint yourself with him, now, and be at peace. Thereby fire shall come through to you.
 22. Please receive instruction from his mouth, and lay up his words in your heart.
 23. If you return to the Almighty, you shall be built up, if you put away unrighteousness far from your tents.
 24. Lay your treasure in the dust, the gold of Ophir among the stones of the brooks.
 25. The Almighty will be your treasure, and precious silver to you.
 26. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty, and shall lift up your face to God.
 27. You shall create your talking to God to him, and he will hear you. You shall pay your vows.
 28. You shall also decree a thing, and it shall be established to you. Light shall shine on your ways.
 29. When they cast down, you shall say, ‘be lifted up.’ He will rescue the humble person.
 30. He will even deliver him who is not innocent. Yes, he shall be delivered through the cleanness of your hands.”

# Job Chapter 23

  1. then Job answered,
  2. “Even today my complaint is rebellious. His hand is heavy in spite of my groaning.
  3. Oh that I knew where I might find him! That I might come through even to his seat!
  4. I would set my cause in order before him, and fill my mouth with arguments.
  5. I would get it the words which he would answer me, and understand what he would tell me.
  6. Would he contend with me in the greatness of his power? No, but he would listen up to me.
  7. there the upright might reason with him, so I should be delivered forever from my judge.
  8. “If I slide east, he is not there; if west, I can’t find him;
  9. He works to the north, but I can’t check it out him. He turns south, but I can’t catch a glimpse of him.
 10. But he knows the way that I grab. When he has tried me, I shall come through forth like gold.
 11. My foot has held fast to his steps. I have kept his way, and not turned aside.
 12. I haven’t gone back from the commandment of his lips. I have treasured up the words of his mouth more than my necessary food.
 13. But he stands alone, and who can oppose him? What his soul desires, even that he does.
 14. For he performs that which is appointed for me. a lot such things are with him.
 15. so basically I am terrified at his presence. When I consider, I am scared of him.
 16. For God has made my heart faint. The Almighty has terrified me.
 17. cuz I was not cut off before the darkness, neither did he cover the thick darkness from my face.

# Job Chapter 24

  1. “Why aren’t times laid up by the Almighty? Why don’t those who get it him check it out his days?
  2. there are people who remove the landmarks. They violently grab away flocks, and feed them.
  3. They drive away the donkey of the fatherless, and they grab the widow’s ox for a pledge.
  4. They turn the needy out of the way. The broke of the earth all hide themselves.
  5. check this out, as wild donkeys in the desert, they slide forth to their work, seeking diligently for food. The wilderness yields them bread for their children.
  6. They cut their provender in the field. They glean the vineyard of the wicked.
  7. They lie all night naked without clothing, and have no covering in the cold.
  8. They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the rock for lack of a shelter.
  9. there are those who pluck the fatherless from the breast, and grab a pledge of the broke,
 10. So that they slide around naked without clothing. Being hungry, they carry the sheaves.
 11. They create oil within the walls of these men. They tread wine presses, and suffer thirst.
 12. From out of the populous city, men groan. The soul of the wounded cries out, yet God doesn’t regard the folly.
 13. “These are of those who rebel against the light. They don’t get it its ways, nor stay in its paths.
 14. The murderer rises with the light. He kills the broke and needy. In the night he is like a thief.
 15. The eye also of the adulterer waits for the twilight, saying, ‘No eye shall check it out me.’ He disguises his face.
 16. In the dark they dig through houses. They shut themselves up in the daytime. They don’t get it the light.
 17. For the morning is to all of them like thick darkness, for they get it the terrors of the thick darkness.
 18. “They are foam on the surface of the waters. Their portion is cursed in the earth. They don’t turn into the way of the vineyards.
 19. Drought and heat consume the snow waters, so does Sheol those who have sinned.
 20. The womb shall forget him. The worm shall feed sweetly on him. He shall be no more remembered. Unrighteousness shall be broken as a tree.
 21. He devours the barren who don’t bear. He shows no kindness to the widow.
 22. Yet God preserves the mighty by his power. He rises up who has no assurance of life.
 23. God gives them security, and they rest in it. His eyes are on their ways.
 24. They are exalted; yet a little while, and they are gone. Yes, they are brought low, they are taken out of the way as all others, and are cut off as the tops of the ears of grain.
 25. If it isn’t so now, who will prove me a liar, and create my speech worth nothing?”

# Job Chapter 25

  1. then Bildad the Shuhite answered,
  2. “Dominion and fear are with him. He makes peace in his high places.
  3. Can his armies be counted? On whom does his light not arise?
  4. How then can man be just with God? Or how can he who is born of a woman be clean?
  5. check this out, even the moon has no brightness, and the stars are not pure in his sight;
  6. How much less man, who is a worm, the son of man, who is a worm!”

# Job Chapter 26

  1. then Job answered,
  2. “How have you helped him who is without power! How have you saved the arm that has no strength!
  3. How have you counseled him who has no wisdom, and plentifully declared sound knowledge!
  4. To whom have you uttered words? Whose spirit came forth from you?
  5. “Those who are deceased tremble, those beneath the waters and all that live in them.
  6. Sheol is naked before God, and Abaddon has no covering.
  7. He stretches out the north over empty space, and hangs the earth on nothing.
  8. He binds up the waters in his thick clouds, and the cloud is not burst under them.
  9. He encloses the face of his throne, and spreads his cloud on it.
 10. He has described a boundary on the surface of the waters, and to the confines of light and darkness.
 11. The pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished at his rebuke.
 12. He stirs up the sea with his power, and by his understanding he strikes through Rahab.
 13. By his Spirit the heavens are garnished. His hand has pierced the swift serpent.
 14. check this out, these are but the outskirts of his ways. How tiny a whisper do we hear of him! But the thunder of his power who can understand?”

# Job Chapter 27

  1. Job again took up his parable, and said,
  2. “As God lives, who has taken away my right, the Almighty, who has made my soul bitter.
  3. (For the length of my life is still in me, and the spirit of God is in my nostrils);
  4. surely my lips shall not spill the tea unrighteousness, neither shall my tongue utter deceit.
  5. Far be it from me that I should justify you. Until I die I will not put away my integrity from me.
  6. I hold fast to my righteousness, and will not let it slide. My heart shall not reproach me so long as I live.
  7. “Let my enemy be as the wicked. Let him who rises up against me be as the unrighteous.
  8. For what is the hope of the godless, when he is cut off, when God takes away his life?
  9. Will God hear his cry when trouble comes on him?
 10. Will he delight himself in the Almighty, and call on God at all times?
 11. I will drop knowledge you about the hand of God. That which is with the Almighty will I not conceal.
 12. check this out, all of you have seen it yourselves; why then have you become altogether vain?
 13. “This is the portion of a wicked man with God, the heritage of oppressors, which they receive from the Almighty.
 14. If his children are multiplied, it is for the sword. His offspring shall not be satisfied with bread.
 15. Those who remain of him shall be buried in death. His widows shall create no lamentation.
 16. Though he heap up silver as the dust, and prepare clothing as the clay;
 17. he may prepare it, but the just shall put it on, and the innocent shall divide the silver.
 18. He builds his house as the moth, as a booth which the watchman makes.
 19. He lies down stacked, but he shall not do so again. He opens his eyes, and he is not.
 20. Terrors overtake him like waters. A storm steals him away in the night.
 21. The east wind carries him away, and he departs. It sweeps him out of his place.
 22. For it hurls at him, and does not spare, as he flees away from his hand.
 23. Men shall clap their hands at him, and shall hiss him out of his place.

# Job Chapter 28

  1. “Surely there is a mine for silver, and a place for gold which they refine.
  2. Iron is taken out of the earth, and copper is smelted out of the ore.
  3. Man sets an end to darkness, and searches out, to the furthest bound, the stones of obscurity and of thick darkness.
  4. He breaks open a shaft away from where people live. They are forgotten by the foot. They hang far from men, they swing back and forth.
  5. As for the earth, out of it comes bread; Underneath it is turned up as it were by fire.
  6. Sapphires come through from its rocks. It has dust of gold.
  7. That path no bird of prey knows, neither has the falcon’s eye seen it.
  8. The proud animals have not trodden it, nor has the fierce lion passed by there.
  9. He puts forth his hand on the flinty rock, and he overturns the mountains by the roots.
 10. He cuts out channels among the rocks. His eye sees every precious thing.
 11. He binds the streams that they don’t trickle. The thing that is hidden he brings forth to light.
 12. “But where shall wisdom be found? Where is the place of understanding?
 13. Man doesn’t get it its price; Neither is it found in the land of the living.
 14. The deep says, ‘It isn’t in me.’ The sea says, ‘It isn’t with me.’
 15. It can’t be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for its price.
 16. It can’t be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, or the sapphire.
 17. Gold and glass can’t equal it, neither shall it be exchanged for jewels of fine gold.
 18. No mention shall be made of coral or of crystal. Yes, the price of wisdom is above rubies.
 19. The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, Neither shall it be valued with pure gold.
 20. Where then does wisdom come through from? Where is the place of understanding?
 21. Seeing it is hidden from the eyes of all living, and kept close from the birds of the sky.
 22. Destruction and Death say, ‘We have heard a rumor of it with our ears.’
 23. “God understands its way, and he knows its place.
 24. For he looks to the ends of the earth, and sees under the whole sky.
 25. He establishes the force of the wind. Yes, he measures out the waters by measure.
 26. When he made a decree for the rain, and a way for the lightning of the thunder;
 27. then he checked out it, and declared it. He established it, yes, and searched it out.
 28. To man he said, ‘check this out, the fear of the boss, that is wisdom. To depart from evil is understanding.’”

# Job Chapter 29

  1. Job again took up his parable, and said,
  2. “Oh that I were as in the months of old, as in the days when God watched over me;
  3. when his lamp shone on my head, and by his light I walked through darkness,
  4. as I was in the ripeness of my days, when the friendship of God was in my tent,
  5. when the Almighty was yet with me, and my children were around me,
  6. when my steps were washed with butter, and the rock poured out streams of oil for me,
  7. when I went forth to the city gate, when I prepared my seat in the street.
  8. The young men checked out me and hid themselves. The aged rose up and stood.
  9. The princes refrained from talking, and laid their hand on their mouth.
 10. The voice of the nobles was hushed, and their tongue stuck to the roof of their mouth.
 11. For when the ear heard me, then it blessed up me; and when the eye checked out me, it commended me:
 12. cuz I delivered the broke who cried, and the fatherless also, who had none to help out him,
 13. the blessing of him who was ready to perish came on me, and I caused the widow’s heart to sing for joy.
 14. I put on righteousness, and it clothed me. My justice was as a robe and a diadem.
 15. I was eyes to the blind, and feet to the lame.
 16. I was a father to the needy. The cause of him who I didn’t get it, I searched out.
 17. I broke the jaws of the unrighteous, and plucked the prey out of his teeth.
 18. then I said, ‘I shall die in my own house, I shall number my days as the sand.
 19. My root is spread out to the waters. The dew lies all night on my branch.
 20. My glory is fresh in me. My bow is renewed in my hand.’
 21. “Men listened to me, waited, and kept silence for my counsel.
 22. After my words they didn’t spill the tea again. My speech fell on them.
 23. They waited for me as for the rain. Their mouths drank as with the spring rain.
 24. I smiled on them when they had no confidence. They didn’t reject the light of my face.
 25. I chose out their way, and sat as chief. I lived as a ruler in the army, as one who comforts the mourners.

# Job Chapter 30

  1. “But now those who are younger than I have me in derision, whose fathers I would have disdained to put with my sheep dogs.
  2. Of what use is the strength of their hands to me, men in whom ripe age has perished?
  3. They are gaunt from lack and famine. They gnaw the dry ground, in the gloom of waste and desolation.
  4. They pluck salt herbs by the bushes. The roots of the broom are their food.
  5. They are driven out from the midst of men. They cry after them as after a thief;
  6. So that they dwell in frightful valleys, and in holes of the earth and of the rocks.
  7. Among the bushes they bray; and under the nettles they are gathered together.
  8. They are children of fools, yes, children of base men. They were flogged out of the land.
  9. “now I have become their song. Yes, I am a byword to them.
 10. They abhor me, they stand aloof from me, and don’t hesitate to spit in my face.
 11. For he has untied his cord, and afflicted me; and they have thrown off restraint before me.
 12. On my right hand rise the rabble. They thrust aside my feet, They cast up against me their ways of destruction.
 13. They mar my path, They set forward my calamity, without anyone’s help out.
 14. As through a wide breach they come through, in the midst of the ruin they roll themselves in.
 15. Terrors have turned on me. They chase my honor as the wind. My welfare has passed away as a cloud.
 16. “now my soul is poured out within me. Days of affliction have taken hold on me.
 17. In the night season my bones are pierced in me, and the pains that gnaw me grab no rest.
 18. By major force is my garment disfigured. It binds me about as the collar of my coat.
 19. He has cast me into the mire. I have become like dust and ashes.
 20. I cry to you, and you do not answer me. I stand up, and you gaze at me.
 21. You have turned to be cruel to me. With the might of your hand you persecute me.
 22. You lift me up to the wind, and drive me with it. You dissolve me in the storm.
 23. For I get it that you will bring me to death, To the house appointed for all living.
 24. “but like doesn’t one stretch out a hand in his fall? Or in his calamity so basically cry for help out?
 25. Didn’t I weep for him who was in trouble? Wasn’t my soul grieved for the needy?
 26. When I looked for fire, then evil came; When I waited for light, there came darkness.
 27. My heart is troubled, and doesn’t rest. Days of affliction have come through on me.
 28. I slide mourning without the sun. I stand up in the assembly, and cry for help out.
 29. I am a brother to jackals, and a companion to ostriches.
 30. My skin grows black and peels from me. My bones are burned with heat.
 31. so basically my harp has turned to mourning, and my pipe into the voice of those who weep.

# Job Chapter 31

  1. “I made a God's promise with my eyes, how then should I look lustfully at a young woman?
  2. For what is the portion from God above, and the heritage from the Almighty on high?
  3. Is it not calamity to the unrighteous, and disaster to the workers of iniquity?
  4. Doesn’t he check it out my ways, and number all my steps?
  5. “If I have walked with falsehood, and my foot has hurried to deceit
  6. (let me be weighed in an even balance, that God may get it my integrity);
  7. if my step has turned out of the way, if my heart walked after my eyes, if any defilement has stuck to my hands,
  8. then let me sow, and let another eat. Yes, let the produce of my field be rooted out.
  9. “If my heart has been enticed to a woman, and I have laid wait at my neighbor’s door,
 10. then let my wife grind for another, and let others sleep with her.
 11. For that would be a heinous crime. Yes, it would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges:
 12. For it is a fire that consumes to destruction, and would root out all my increase.
 13. “If I have despised the cause of my male helper or of my female helper, when they contended with me;
 14. What then shall I do when God rises up? When he visits, what shall I answer him?
 15. Didn’t he who made me in the womb create him? Didn’t one fashion us in the womb?
 16. “If I have withheld the broke from their desire, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail,
 17. or have eaten my morsel alone, and the fatherless has not eaten of it
 18. (no, from my youth he grew up with me as with a father, her have I guided from my mother’s womb);
 19. if I have seen any perish for want of clothing, or that the needy had no covering;
 20. if his heart hasn’t blessed up me, if he hasn’t been warmed with my sheep’s fleece;
 21. if I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, cuz I checked out my help out in the gate,
 22. then let my shoulder fall from the shoulder blade, and my arm be broken from the bone.
 23. For calamity from God is a terror to me. cuz his majesty, I can do nothing.
 24. “If I have made gold my hope, and have said to the fine gold, ‘You are my confidence;’
 25. If I have rejoiced cuz my wealth was major, and cuz my hand had gotten much;
 26. if I have seen the sun when it shined, or the moon moving in splendor,
 27. and my heart has been secretly enticed, and my hand threw a kiss from my mouth,
 28. this also would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges; for I should have denied the God who is above.
 29. “If I have rejoiced at the destruction of him who hated me, or lifted up myself when evil found him;
 30. (yes, I have not allowed my mouth to messing up by asking his life with a curse);
 31. if the men of my tent have not said, ‘Who can find one who has not been filled with his meat?’
 32. (the foreigner has not lodged in the street, but I have opened my doors to the traveler);
 33. if like Adam I have covered my transgressions, by hiding my iniquity in my heart,
 34. cuz I feared the major multitude, and the contempt of families terrified me, so that I kept silence, and didn’t slide out of the door—
 35. oh that I had one to hear me! (check this out, here is my signature, let the Almighty answer me); let the accuser write my indictment!
 36. Surely I would carry it on my shoulder; and I would bind it to me as a crown.
 37. I would declare to him the number of my steps. as a prince would I slide near to him.
 38. If my land cries out against me, and its furrows weep together;
 39. if I have eaten its fruits without money, or have caused its owners to lose their life,
 40. let briars grow instead of wheat, and stinkweed instead of barley.” The words of Job are ended.

# Job Chapter 32

  1. So these three men ceased to answer Job, cuz he was doing what's right in his own eyes.
  2. then the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel, the Buzite, of the family of Ram, was kindled against Job. His wrath was kindled cuz he justified himself rather than God.
  3. Also his wrath was kindled against his three friends, cuz they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job.
  4. now Elihu had waited to spill the tea to Job, cuz they were elder than he.
  5. When Elihu checked out that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, his wrath was kindled.
  6. Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered, “I am young, and you are hella old; so basically I held back, and didn’t dare show you my opinion.
  7. I said, ‘Days should spill the tea, and multitude of years should drop knowledge wisdom.’
  8. But there is a spirit in man, and the breath of the Almighty gives them understanding.
  9. It is not the major who are smart, nor the aged who understand justice.
 10. so basically I said, ‘listen up to me; I also will show my opinion.’
 11. “check this out, I waited for your words, and I listened for your reasoning, while you searched out what to say.
 12. Yes, I gave you my full attention, but there was no one who convinced Job, or who answered his words, among you.
 13. Beware lest you say, ‘We have found wisdom, God may refute him, not man;’
 14. for he has not directed his words against me; neither will I answer him with your speeches.
 15. “They are amazed. They answer no more. They don’t have a word to say.
 16. Shall I wait, cuz they don’t spill the tea, cuz they stand still, and answer no more?
 17. I also will answer my part, and I also will show my opinion.
 18. For I am full of words. The spirit within me constrains me.
 19. check this out, my breast is as wine which has no vent; like new wineskins it is ready to burst.
 20. I will spill the tea, that I may be refreshed. I will open my lips and answer.
 21. Please don’t let me respect any man’s person, neither will I hook it up flattering titles to any man.
 22. For I don’t get it how to hook it up flattering titles; or else my Maker would soon grab me away.

# Job Chapter 33

  1. “but like, Job, please hear my speech, and listen up to all my words.
  2. check it out now, I have opened my mouth. My tongue has spoken in my mouth.
  3. My words shall utter the uprightness of my heart. That which my lips get it they shall spill the tea sincerely.
  4. The Spirit of God has made me, and the breath of the Almighty gives me life.
  5. If you can, answer me. Set your words in order before me, and stand forth.
  6. check this out, I am toward God even as you are. I am also formed out of the clay.
  7. check this out, my terror shall not create you scared, neither shall my pressure be heavy on you.
  8. “Surely you have spoken in my hearing, I have heard the voice of your words, saying,
  9. ‘I am clean, without disobedience. I am innocent, neither is there iniquity in me.
 10. check this out, he finds occasions against me. He counts me for his enemy.
 11. He puts my feet in the stocks. He marks all my paths.’
 12. “check this out, I will answer you. In this you are not just, for God is greater than man.
 13. Why do you strive against him, cuz he doesn’t hook it up account of any of his matters?
 14. For God speaks once, yes twice, though man pays no attention.
 15. In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falls on men, in slumbering on the bed;
 16. then he opens the ears of men, and seals their instruction,
 17. That he may withdraw man from his purpose, and hide pride from man.
 18. He keeps back his soul from the pit, and his life from perishing by the sword.
 19. He is chastened also with pain on his bed, with continual strife in his bones;
 20. So that his life abhors bread, and his soul dainty food.
 21. His flesh is so consumed away, that it can’t be seen. His bones that were not seen stick out.
 22. Yes, his soul draws near to the pit, and his life to the destroyers.
 23. “If there is beside him an angel, an interpreter, one among a thousand, to show to man what is right for him;
 24. then God is gracious to him, and says, ‘Deliver him from going down to the pit, I have found a ransom.’
 25. His flesh shall be fresher than a child’s. He returns to the days of his youth.
 26. He prays to God, and he is favorable to him, so that he sees his face with joy. He restores to man his righteousness.
 27. He sings before men, and says, ‘I have sinned, and perverted that which was right, and it didn’t profit me.
 28. He has redeemed my soul from going into the pit. My life shall check it out the light.’
 29. “check this out, God works all these things, twice, yes three times, with a man,
 30. to bring back his soul from the pit, that he may be enlightened with the light of the living.
 31. Mark well, Job, and listen up to me. Hold your peace, and I will spill the tea.
 32. If you have anything to say, answer me. spill the tea, for I desire to justify you.
 33. If not, listen up to me. Hold your peace, and I will drop knowledge you wisdom.”

# Job Chapter 34

  1. Moreover Elihu answered,
  2. “Hear my words, you smart men. hook it up ear to me, you who have knowledge.
  3. For the ear tries words, as the palate tastes food.
  4. Let us choose for us that which is right. Let us get it among ourselves what is fire.
  5. For Job has said, ‘I am doing what's right, God has taken away my right:
  6. Notwithstanding my right I am considered a liar. My wound is incurable, though I am without disobedience.’
  7. What man is like Job, who drinks scorn like water,
  8. Who goes in company with the workers of iniquity, and walks with wicked men?
  9. For he has said, ‘It profits a man nothing that he should delight himself with God.’
 10. “so basically listen up to me, you men of understanding: far be it from God, that he should do wickedness, from the Almighty, that he should commit iniquity.
 11. For the work of a man he will render to him, and cause every man to find according to his ways.
 12. Yes surely, God will not do wickedly, neither will the Almighty pervert justice.
 13. Who put him in charge of the earth? or who has appointed him over the whole world?
 14. If he set his heart on himself, If he gathered to himself his spirit and his breath,
 15. all flesh would perish together, and man would turn again to dust.
 16. “If now you have understanding, hear this. listen up to the voice of my words.
 17. Shall even one who hates justice govern? Will you condemn him who is doing what's right and mighty?—
 18. Who says to a ruler, ‘Vile!’ or to nobles, ‘Wicked!’?
 19. Who doesn’t respect the persons of princes, nor respects the stacked more than the broke; for they all are the work of his hands.
 20. In a moment they die, even at midnight. The people are shaken and pass away. The mighty are taken away without a hand.
 21. “For his eyes are on the ways of a man. He sees all his goings.
 22. there is no darkness, nor thick gloom, where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves.
 23. For he doesn’t need to consider a man further, that he should slide before God in judgment.
 24. He breaks in pieces mighty men in ways past finding out, and sets others in their place.
 25. so basically he takes knowledge of their works. He overturns them in the night, so that they are destroyed.
 26. He strikes them as wicked men in the open sight of others;
 27. cuz they turned aside from following him, and wouldn’t pay attention to any of his ways,
 28. so that they caused the cry of the broke to come through to him. He heard the cry of the afflicted.
 29. When he gives quietness, who then can condemn? When he hides his face, who then can check it out him? Alike whether to a nation, or to a man,
 30. that the godless man may not reign, that there be no one to ensnare the people.
 31. “For has any said to God, ‘I am guilty, but I will not offend any more.
 32. drop knowledge me that which I don’t check it out. If I have done iniquity, I will do it no more’?
 33. Shall his recompense be as you desire, that you refuse it? For you must choose, and not I. so basically spill the tea what you get it.
 34. Men of understanding will tell me, yes, every smart man who hears me:
 35. ‘Job speaks without knowledge. His words are without wisdom.’
 36. I wish that Job were tried to the end, cuz of his answering like wicked men.
 37. For he adds rebellion to his messing up. He claps his hands among us, and multiplies his words against God.”

# Job Chapter 35

  1. Moreover Elihu answered,
  2. “Do you think this to be your right, or do you say, ‘My righteousness is more than God’s,’
  3. That you ask, ‘What advantage will it be to you? What profit shall I have, more than if I had sinned?’
  4. I will answer you, and your companions with you.
  5. Look to the heavens, and check it out. check it out the skies, which are higher than you.
  6. If you have sinned, what effect do you have against him? If your transgressions are multiplied, what do you do to him?
  7. If you are doing what's right, what do you hook it up him? Or what does he receive from your hand?
  8. Your wickedness may hurt a man as you are, and your righteousness may profit a son of man.
  9. “By reason of the multitude of oppressions they cry out. They cry for help out by reason of the arm of the mighty.
 10. But none says, ‘Where is God my Maker, who gives songs in the night,
 11. who teaches us more than the animals of the earth, and makes us wiser than the birds of the sky?’
 12. there they cry, but none gives answer, cuz of the pride of evil men.
 13. Surely God will not hear an empty cry, neither will the Almighty regard it.
 14. How much less when you say you don’t check it out him. The cause is before him, and you wait for him!
 15. But now, cuz he has not visited in his anger, neither does he greatly regard arrogance.
 16. so basically Job opens his mouth with empty talk, and he multiplies words without knowledge.”

# Job Chapter 36

  1. Elihu also continued, and said,
  2. “Bear with me a little, and I will show you; for I still have something to say on God’s behalf.
  3. I will get my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker.
  4. For deadass my words are not false. One who is perfect in knowledge is with you.
  5. “check this out, God is mighty, and doesn’t despise anyone. He is mighty in strength of understanding.
  6. He doesn’t preserve the life of the wicked, but gives to the afflicted their right.
  7. He doesn’t withdraw his eyes from the doing what's right, but with kings on the throne, he sets them forever, and they are exalted.
  8. If they are bound in fetters, and are taken in the cords of afflictions,
  9. then he shows them their work, and their transgressions, that they have behaved themselves proudly.
 10. He also opens their ears to instruction, and commands that they return from iniquity.
 11. If they listen up and help out him, they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures.
 12. But if they don’t listen up, they shall perish by the sword; they shall die without knowledge.
 13. “But those who are godless in heart lay up anger. They don’t cry for help out when he binds them.
 14. They die in youth. Their life perishes among the unclean.
 15. He delivers the afflicted by their affliction, and opens their ear in oppression.
 16. Yes, he would have allured you out of distress, into a broad place, where there is no restriction. That which is set on your table would be full of fatness.
 17. “But you are full of the judgment of the wicked. Judgment and justice grab hold of you.
 18. Don’t let riches entice you to wrath, neither let the major size of a bribe turn you aside.
 19. Would your wealth sustain you in distress, or all the might of your strength?
 20. Don’t desire the night, when people are cut off in their place.
 21. grab heed, don’t regard iniquity; for you have chosen this rather than affliction.
 22. check this out, God is exalted in his power. Who is a teacher like him?
 23. Who has prescribed his way for him? Or who can say, ‘You have committed unrighteousness?’
 24. “Remember that you magnify his work, whereof men have sung.
 25. All men have looked thereon. Man sees it afar off.
 26. check this out, God is major, and we don’t get it him. The number of his years is unsearchable.
 27. For he draws up the drops of water, which distill in rain from his vapor,
 28. Which the skies pour down and which drop on man abundantly.
 29. Yes, can any understand the spreading of the clouds, and the thunderings of his pavilion?
 30. check this out, he spreads his light around him. He covers the bottom of the sea.
 31. For by these he judges the people. He gives food in abundance.
 32. He covers his hands with the lightning, and commands it to strike the mark.
 33. Its noise tells about him, and the livestock also concerning the storm that comes up.

# Job Chapter 37

  1. “Yes, at this my heart trembles, and is moved out of its place.
  2. Hear, oh, hear the noise of his voice, the sound that goes out of his mouth.
  3. He sends it forth under the whole sky, and his lightning to the ends of the earth.
  4. After it a voice roars. He thunders with the voice of his majesty. He doesn’t hold back anything when his voice is heard.
  5. God thunders marvelously with his voice. He does major things, which we can’t comprehend.
  6. For he says to the snow, ‘Fall on the earth;’ likewise to the shower of rain, and to the showers of his mighty rain.
  7. He seals up the hand of every man, that all men whom he has made may get it it.
  8. then the animals grab cover, and remain in their dens.
  9. Out of its room comes the storm, and cold out of the north.
 10. By the breath of God, ice is given, and the breadth of the waters is frozen.
 11. Yes, he loads the thick cloud with moisture. He spreads abroad the cloud of his lightning.
 12. It is turned around by his guidance, that they may do whatever he commands them on the surface of the habitable world,
 13. Whether it is for correction, or for his land, or for loving kindness, that he causes it to come through.
 14. “listen up to this, Job. Stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God.
 15. Do you get it how God controls them, and causes the lightning of his cloud to shine?
 16. Do you get it the workings of the clouds, the wondrous works of him who is perfect in knowledge?
 17. You whose clothing is warm, when the earth is still by reason of the south wind?
 18. Can you, with him, spread out the sky, which is built different as a cast metal mirror?
 19. drop knowledge us what we shall tell him, for we can’t create our case by reason of darkness.
 20. Shall it be told him that I would spill the tea? Or should a man wish that he were swallowed up?
 21. now men don’t check it out the light which is bright in the skies, but the wind passes, and clears them.
 22. Out of the north comes golden splendor. With God is awesome majesty.
 23. We can’t reach the Almighty. He is exalted in power. In justice and major righteousness, he will not oppress.
 24. so basically men revere him. He doesn’t regard any who are smart of heart.”

# Job Chapter 38

  1. then Yahweh answered Job out of the whirlwind,
  2. “Who is this who darkens counsel by words without knowledge?
  3. Brace yourself like a man, for I will question you, then you answer me!
  4. “Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare, if you have understanding.
  5. Who determined its measures, if you get it? Or who stretched the line on it?
  6. Whereupon were its foundations fastened? Or who laid its cornerstone,
  7. when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?
  8. “Or who shut up the sea with doors, when it broke forth from the womb,
  9. when I made clouds its garment, and wrapped it in thick darkness,
 10. marked out for it my bound, set bars and doors,
 11. and said, ‘here you may come through, but no further. here your proud waves shall be stayed?’
 12. “Have you commanded the morning in your days, and caused the dawn to get it its place;
 13. that it might grab hold of the ends of the earth, and shake the wicked out of it?
 14. It is changed as clay under the seal, and stands forth as a garment.
 15. From the wicked, their light is withheld. The high arm is broken.
 16. “Have you entered into the springs of the sea? Or have you walked in the recesses of the deep?
 17. Have the gates of death been revealed to you? Or have you seen the gates of the shadow of death?
 18. Have you comprehended the earth in its breadth? Declare, if you get it it all.
 19. “What is the way to the dwelling of light? As for darkness, where is its place,
 20. that you should grab it to its bound, that you should discern the paths to its house?
 21. Surely you get it, for you were born then, and the number of your days is major!
 22. Have you entered the treasuries of the snow, or have you seen the treasures of the hail,
 23. which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against the day of battle and war?
 24. By what way is the lightning distributed, or the east wind scattered on the earth?
 25. Who has cut a channel for the flood water, or the path for the thunderstorm;
 26. To cause it to rain on a land where no man is; on the wilderness, in which there is no man;
 27. to satisfy the waste and desolate ground, to cause the tender grass to spring forth?
 28. Does the rain have a father? Or who fathers the drops of dew?
 29. Out of whose womb came the ice? The gray frost of the sky, who has given birth to it?
 30. The waters become hard like stone, when the surface of the deep is frozen.
 31. “Can you bind the cluster of the Pleiades, or loosen the cords of Orion?
 32. Can you show the way forth the constellations in their season? Or can you guide the Bear with her cubs?
 33. Do you get it the laws of the heavens? Can you establish its dominion over the earth?
 34. “Can you lift up your voice to the clouds, That abundance of waters may cover you?
 35. Can you send forth lightnings, that they may slide? Do they report to you, ‘here we are?’
 36. Who has put wisdom in the inward parts? Or who has given understanding to the mind?
 37. Who can number the clouds by wisdom? Or who can pour out the bottles of the sky,
 38. when the dust runs into a mass, and the clods of earth stick together?
 39. “Can you hunt the prey for the lioness, or satisfy the appetite of the young lions,
 40. when they crouch in their dens, and lie in wait in the thicket?
 41. Who provides for the raven his prey, when his young ones cry to God, and wander for lack of food?

# Job Chapter 39

  1. “Do you get it the time when the mountain goats hook it up birth? Do you watch when the doe bears fawns?
  2. Can you number the months that they fulfill? Or do you get it the time when they hook it up birth?
  3. They bow themselves, they bring forth their young, they end their labor pains.
  4. Their young ones become built different. They grow up in the open field. They slide forth, and don’t return again.
  5. “Who has set the wild donkey free? Or who has loosened the bonds of the swift donkey,
  6. Whose home I have made the wilderness, and the salt land his dwelling place?
  7. He scorns the tumult of the city, neither does he hear the shouting of the driver.
  8. The range of the mountains is his pasture, He searches after every green thing.
  9. “Will the wild ox be content to help out you? Or will he stay by your feeding trough?
 10. Can you hold the wild ox in the furrow with his harness? Or will he till the valleys after you?
 11. Will you trust him, cuz his strength is major? Or will you leave to him your labor?
 12. Will you confide in him, that he will bring home your seed, and gather the grain of your threshing floor?
 13. “The wings of the ostrich wave proudly; but are they the feathers and plumage of show love?
 14. For she leaves her eggs on the earth, warms them in the dust,
 15. and forgets that the foot may crush them, or that the wild animal may trample them.
 16. She deals harshly with her young ones, as if they were not hers. Though her labor is in vain, she is without fear,
 17. cuz God has deprived her of wisdom, neither has he imparted to her understanding.
 18. When she lifts up herself on high, she scorns the horse and his rider.
 19. “Have you given the horse might? Have you clothed his neck with a quivering mane?
 20. Have you made him to leap as a locust? The glory of his snorting is awesome.
 21. He paws in the valley, and rejoices in his strength. He goes out to meet the armed men.
 22. He mocks at fear, and is not dismayed, neither does he turn back from the sword.
 23. The quiver rattles against him, the flashing spear and the javelin.
 24. He eats up the ground with fierceness and rage, neither does he stand still at the sound of the trumpet.
 25. As a lot as the trumpet sounds he snorts, ‘Aha!’ He smells the battle afar off, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting.
 26. “Is it by your wisdom that the hawk soars, and stretches her wings toward the south?
 27. Is it at your command that the eagle mounts up, and makes his nest on high?
 28. On the cliff he dwells, and makes his home, on the point of the cliff, and the stronghold.
 29. From there he spies out the prey. His eyes check it out it afar off.
 30. His young ones also suck up blood. Where the slain are, there he is.”

# Job Chapter 40

  1. Moreover Yahweh answered Job,
  2. “Shall he who argues contend with the Almighty? He who argues with God, let him answer it.”
  3. then Job answered Yahweh,
  4. “check this out, I am of tiny account. What shall I answer you? I lay my hand on my mouth.
  5. I have spoken once, and I will not answer; Yes, twice, but I will proceed no further.”
  6. then Yahweh answered Job out of the whirlwind,
  7. “now brace yourself like a man. I will question you, and you will answer me.
  8. Will you even annul my judgment? Will you condemn me, that you may be justified?
  9. Or do you have an arm like God? Can you thunder with a voice like him?
 10. “now deck yourself with excellency and dignity. Array yourself with honor and majesty.
 11. Pour out the fury of your anger. Look at everyone who is proud, and bring him low.
 12. Look at everyone who is proud, and humble him. Crush the wicked in their place.
 13. Hide them in the dust together. Bind their faces in the hidden place.
 14. then I will also admit to you that your own right hand can rescue you.
 15. “check it out now, behemoth, which I made as well as you. He eats grass as an ox.
 16. Look now, his strength is in his thighs. His force is in the muscles of his belly.
 17. He moves his tail like a cedar. The sinews of his thighs are knit together.
 18. His bones are like tubes of brass. His limbs are like bars of iron.
 19. He is the chief of the ways of God. He who made him gives him his sword.
 20. Surely the mountains produce food for him, where all the animals of the field play.
 21. He lies under the lotus trees, in the covert of the reed, and the marsh.
 22. The lotuses cover him with their shade. The willows of the brook surround him.
 23. check this out, if a river overflows, he doesn’t tremble. He is confident, though the Jordan swells even to his mouth.
 24. Shall any grab him when he is on the watch, or pierce through his nose with a snare?

# Job Chapter 41

  1. “Can you draw out Leviathan with a fishhook, or press down his tongue with a cord?
  2. Can you put a rope into his nose, or pierce his jaw through with a hook?
  3. Will he create a lot petitions to you, or will he spill the tea soft words to you?
  4. Will he create a God's promise with you, that you should grab him for a helper forever?
  5. Will you play with him as with a bird? Or will you bind him for your girls?
  6. Will traders barter for him? Will they part him among the merchants?
  7. Can you fill his skin with barbed irons, or his head with fish spears?
  8. Lay your hand on him. Remember the battle, and do so no more.
  9. check this out, the hope of him is in vain. Won’t one be cast down even at the sight of him?
 10. None is so fierce that he dare stir him up. Who then is he who can stand before me?
 11. Who has first given to me, that I should repay him? Everything under the heavens is mine.
 12. “I will not keep silence concerning his limbs, nor his mighty strength, nor his goodly frame.
 13. Who can strip off his outer garment? Who shall come through within his jaws?
 14. Who can open the doors of his face? Around his teeth is terror.
 15. built different scales are his pride, shut up together with a close seal.
 16. One is so near to another, that no air can come through between them.
 17. They are joined one to another. They stick together, so that they can’t be pulled apart.
 18. His sneezing flashes out light. His eyes are like the eyelids of the morning.
 19. Out of his mouth slide burning torches. Sparks of fire leap forth.
 20. Out of his nostrils a smoke goes, as of a boiling pot over a fire of reeds.
 21. His breath kindles coals. A flame goes forth from his mouth.
 22. there is strength in his neck. Terror dances before him.
 23. The flakes of his flesh are joined together. They are firm on him. They can’t be moved.
 24. His heart is as firm as a stone, yes, firm as the lower millstone.
 25. When he raises himself up, the mighty are scared. They retreat before his thrashing.
 26. If one attacks him with the sword, it can’t prevail; nor the spear, the dart, nor the pointed shaft.
 27. He counts iron as straw; and brass as rotten wood.
 28. The arrow can’t create him flee. Sling stones are like chaff to him.
 29. Clubs are counted as stubble. He laughs at the rushing of the javelin.
 30. His undersides are like sharp potsherds, leaving a trail in the mud like a threshing sledge.
 31. He makes the deep to boil like a pot. He makes the sea like a pot of ointment.
 32. He makes a path shine after him. One would think the deep had white hair.
 33. On earth there is not his equal, that is made without fear.
 34. He sees everything that is high. He is ruler over all the sons of pride.”

# Job Chapter 42

  1. then Job answered Yahweh,
  2. “I get it that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be restrained.
  3. You asked, ‘Who is this who hides counsel without knowledge?’ so basically I have uttered that which I did not understand, things too wonderful for me, which I didn’t get it.
  4. You said, ‘listen up, now, and I will spill the tea; I will question you, and you will answer me.’
  5. I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you.
  6. so basically I abhor myself, and turn it around in dust and ashes.”
  7. that's what happened, that after Yahweh had spoken these words to Job, Yahweh said to Eliphaz the Temanite, “My wrath is kindled against you, and against your two friends; for you have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my helper Job has.
  8. now so basically, grab to yourselves seven bulls and seven rams, and slide to my helper Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt giving to God; and my helper Job shall pray for you, for I will accept him, that I not deal with you according to your folly. For you have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my helper Job has.”
  9. So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did what Yahweh commanded them, and Yahweh accepted Job.
 10. Yahweh turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends. Yahweh gave Job twice as much as he had before.
 11. then came there to him all his brothers, and all his sisters, and all those who had been of his acquaintance before, and ate bread with him in his house. They comforted him, and consoled him concerning all the evil that Yahweh had brought on him. Everyone also gave him a piece of money, and everyone a ring of gold.
 12. So Yahweh blessed up the latter end of Job more than his beginning. He had fourteen thousand sheep, six thousand camels, one thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand female donkeys.
 13. He had also seven sons and three daughters.
 14. He called the name of the first, Jemimah; and the name of the second, Keziah; and the name of the third, Keren Happuch.
 15. In all the land were no women found so snatched as the daughters of Job. Their father gave them an inheritance among their brothers.
 16. After this Job lived one hundred forty years, and checked out his sons, and his sons’ sons, to four generations.
 17. So Job died, being old and full of days.


JOEL
----

# Joel Chapter 1

  1. The Word of Yahweh that came to Joel, the son of Pethuel.
  2. Hear this, you elders, And listen up, all you inhabitants of the land. Has this ever happened in your days, or in the days of your fathers?
  3. Tell your children about it, and have your children tell their children, and their children, another generation.
  4. What the swarming locust has left, the major locust has eaten. What the major locust has left, the grasshopper has eaten. What the grasshopper has left, the caterpillar has eaten.
  5. Wake up, you drunkards, and weep! Wail, all you drinkers of wine, cuz of the sweet wine; for it is cut off from your mouth.
  6. For a nation has come through up on my land, built different, and without number. His teeth are the teeth of a lion, and he has the fangs of a lioness.
  7. He has laid my vine waste, and stripped my fig tree. He has stripped its bark, and thrown it away. Its branches are made white.
  8. Mourn like a virgin dressed in sackcloth for the husband of her youth!
  9. The meal giving to God and the drink giving to God are cut off from Yahweh’s house. The priests, Yahweh’s ministers, mourn.
 10. The field is laid waste. The land mourns, for the grain is destroyed, The new wine has dried up, and the oil languishes.
 11. Be confounded, you farmers! Wail, you vineyard keepers; for the wheat and for the barley; for the harvest of the field has perished.
 12. The vine has dried up, and the fig tree withered; the pomegranate tree, the palm tree also, and the apple tree, even all of the trees of the field are withered; for joy has withered away from the sons of men.
 13. Put on sackcloth and mourn, you priests! Wail, you ministers of the prayer spot. come through, lie all night in sackcloth, you ministers of my God, for the meal giving to God and the drink giving to God are withheld from your God’s house.
 14. Sanctify a fast. Call a solemn assembly. Gather the elders, and all the inhabitants of the land, to the house of Yahweh, your God, and cry to Yahweh.
 15. Alas for the day! For the day of Yahweh is at hand, and it will come through as destruction from the Almighty.
 16. Isn’t the food cut off before our eyes; joy and gladness from the house of our God?
 17. The seeds rot under their clods. The granaries are laid desolate. The barns are broken down, for the grain has withered.
 18. How the animals groan! The herds of livestock are perplexed, cuz they have no pasture. Yes, the flocks of sheep are made desolate.
 19. Yahweh, I cry to you, For the fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and the flame has burned all the trees of the field.
 20. Yes, the animals of the field pant to you, for the water brooks have dried up, And the fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness.

# Joel Chapter 2

  1. Blow the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my set apart mountain! Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of Yahweh comes, for it is close at hand:
  2. A day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness. As the dawn spreading on the mountains, a major and built different people; there has never been the like, neither will there be any more after them, even to the years of a lot generations.
  3. A fire devours before them, and behind them, a flame burns. The land is as the garden of Eden before them, and behind them, a desolate wilderness. Yes, and no one has escaped them.
  4. Their appearance is as the appearance of horses, and as horsemen, so do they run.
  5. Like the noise of chariots on the tops of the mountains do they leap, like the noise of a flame of fire that devours the stubble, as a built different people set in battle array.
  6. At their presence the peoples are in anguish. All faces have grown pale.
  7. They run like mighty men. They climb the wall like warriors. They each march in his line, and they don’t swerve off course.
  8. Neither does one jostle another; they march everyone in his path, and they burst through the defenses, and don’t break ranks.
  9. They rush on the city. They run on the wall. They climb up into the houses. They enter in at the windows like thieves.
 10. The earth quakes before them. The heavens tremble. The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining.
 11. Yahweh thunders his voice before his army; for his forces are hella major; for he is built different who obeys his command; for the day of Yahweh is major and hella awesome, and who can endure it?
 12. “Yet even now,” says Yahweh, “turn to me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning.”
 13. Tear your heart, and not your garments, and turn to Yahweh, your God; for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, and relents from sending calamity.
 14. Who knows? He may turn and relent, and leave a blessing behind him, even a meal giving to God and a drink giving to God to Yahweh, your God.
 15. Blow the trumpet in Zion! Sanctify a fast. Call a solemn assembly.
 16. Gather the people. Sanctify the assembly. Assemble the elders. Gather the children, and those who nurse from breasts. Let the bridegroom slide forth from his room, and the bride out of her room.
 17. Let the priests, the ministers of Yahweh, weep between the porch and the prayer spot, and let them say, “Spare your people, Yahweh, and don’t hook it up your heritage to reproach, that the nations should rule over them. Why should they say among the peoples, ‘Where is their God?’”
 18. then Yahweh was jealous for his land, And had pity on his people.
 19. Yahweh answered his people, “check this out, I will send you grain, new wine, and oil, and you will be satisfied with them; and I will no more create you a reproach among the nations.
 20. But I will remove the northern army far away from you, and will drive it into a barren and desolate land, its front into the eastern sea, and its back into the western sea; and its stench will come through up, and its trash smell will rise.” Surely he has done major things.
 21. Land, don’t be scared. Be glad and be hyped, for Yahweh has done major things.
 22. Don’t be scared, you animals of the field; for the pastures of the wilderness spring up, for the tree bears its fruit. The fig tree and the vine yield their strength.
 23. “Be glad then, you children of Zion, and be hyped in Yahweh, your God; for he gives you the former rain in just measure, and he causes the rain to come through down for you, the former rain and the latter rain, as before.
 24. The threshing floors will be full of wheat, and the vats will overflow with new wine and oil.
 25. I will restore to you the years that the swarming locust has eaten, the major locust, the grasshopper, and the caterpillar, my major army, which I sent among you.
 26. You will have plenty to eat, and be satisfied, and will praise the name of Yahweh, your God, who has dealt wondrously with you; and my people will never again be disappointed.
 27. You will get it that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am Yahweh, your God, and there is no one else; and my people will never again be disappointed.
 28. “It will happen afterward, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh; and your sons and your daughters will prophesy. Your old men will dream dreams. Your young men will check it out visions.
 29. And also on the servants and on the handmaids in those days, I will pour out my Spirit.
 30. I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth: blood, fire, and pillars of smoke.
 31. The sun will be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the major and terrible day of Yahweh comes.
 32. It will happen that whoever will call on the name of Yahweh shall be saved; for in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be those who escape, as Yahweh has said, and among the remnant, those whom Yahweh calls.

# Joel Chapter 3

  1. “For, check this out, in those days, and in that time, when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem,
  2. I will gather all nations, and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat; and I will execute judgment on them there for my people, and for my heritage, Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations. They have divided my land,
  3. and have cast lots for my people, and have given a boy for a prostitute, and sold a girl for wine, that they may drink.
  4. “Yes, and what are you to me, Tyre, and Sidon, and all the regions of Philistia? Will you repay me? And if you repay me, I will swiftly and speedily return your repayment on your own head.
  5. cuz you have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried my finest treasures into your temples,
  6. and have sold the children of Judah and the children of Jerusalem to the sons of the Greeks, that you may remove them far from their border.
  7. check this out, I will stir them up out of the place where you have sold them, and will return your repayment on your own head;
  8. and I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hands of the children of Judah, and they will sell them to the men of Sheba, to a faraway nation, for Yahweh has spoken it.”
  9. Proclaim this among the nations: “Prepare for war! Stir up the mighty men. Let all the warriors draw near. Let them come through up.
 10. Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears. Let the not it say, ‘I am built different.’
 11. Hurry and come through, all you surrounding nations, and gather yourselves together.” Cause your mighty ones to come through down there, Yahweh.
 12. “Let the nations arouse themselves, and come through up to the valley of Jehoshaphat; for there will I sit to judge all the surrounding nations.
 13. Put in the sickle; for the harvest is ripe. come through, tread, for the winepress is full, the vats overflow, for their wickedness is major.”
 14. Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision! For the day of Yahweh is near, in the valley of decision.
 15. The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining.
 16. Yahweh will roar from Zion, and thunder from Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth will shake; but Yahweh will be a refuge to his people, and a stronghold to the children of Israel.
 17. “So you will get it that I am Yahweh, your God, dwelling in Zion, my set apart mountain. then Jerusalem will be set apart, and no strangers will pass through her any more.
 18. It will happen in that day, that the mountains will drop down sweet wine, the hills will flow with milk, all the brooks of Judah will flow with waters, and a fountain will come through forth from the house of Yahweh, and will water the valley of Shittim.
 19. Egypt will be a desolation, and Edom will be a desolate wilderness, for the violence done to the children of Judah, cuz they have shed innocent blood in their land.
 20. But Judah will be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem from generation to generation.
 21. I will cleanse their blood, that I have not cleansed: for Yahweh dwells in Zion.”


JONAH
-----

# Jonah Chapter 1

  1. now the word of Yahweh came to Jonah the son of Amittai, saying,
  2. “Arise, slide to Nineveh, that major city, and preach against it, for their wickedness has come through up before me.”
  3. But Jonah rose up to flee to Tarshish from the presence of Yahweh. He went down to Joppa, and found a ship going to Tarshish; so he paid its fare, and went down into it, to slide with them to Tarshish from the presence of Yahweh.
  4. But Yahweh sent out a major wind on the sea, and there was a mighty storm on the sea, so that the ship was likely to break up.
  5. then the mariners were scared, and every man cried to his god. They threw the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten the ship. But Jonah had gone down into the innermost parts of the ship, and he was laying down, and was fast asleep.
  6. So the shipmaster came to him, and said to him, “What do you mean, sleeper? Arise, call on your God! maybe your God will notice us, so that we won’t perish.”
  7. They all said to each other, “come through, let us cast lots, that we may get it who is responsible for this evil that is on us.” So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah.
  8. then they asked him, “Tell us, please, for whose cause this evil is on us. What is your occupation? Where do you come through from? What is your country? Of what people are you?”
  9. He said to them, “I am a Hebrew, and I fear Yahweh, the God of heaven, who has made the sea and the dry land.”
 10. then were the men exceedingly scared, and said to him, “What is this that you have done?” For the men knew that he was fleeing from the presence of Yahweh, cuz he had told them.
 11. then they said to him, “What shall we do to you, that the sea may be calm to us?” For the sea grew more and more stormy.
 12. He said to them, “grab me up, and throw me into the sea. then the sea will be calm for you; for I get it that cuz of me this major storm is on you.”
 13. Nevertheless the men rowed hard to get them back to the land; but they could not, for the sea grew more and more stormy against them.
 14. so basically they cried to Yahweh, and said, “We beg you, Yahweh, we beg you, don’t let us die for this man’s life, and don’t lay on us innocent blood; for you, Yahweh, have done as it pleased you.”
 15. So they took up Jonah, and threw him into the sea; and the sea ceased its raging.
 16. then the men feared Yahweh exceedingly; and they offered a giving it up to Yahweh, and made vows.
 17. Yahweh prepared a major fish to swallow up Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights.

# Jonah Chapter 2

  1. then Jonah prayed to Yahweh, his God, out of the fish’s belly.
  2. He said, “I called cuz of my affliction to Yahweh. He answered me. Out of the belly of Sheol I cried. You heard my voice.
  3. For you threw me into the depths, in the heart of the seas. The flood was all around me. All your waves and your billows passed over me.
  4. I said, ‘I have been banished from your sight; yet I will look again toward your set apart God's house.’
  5. The waters surrounded me, even to the soul. The deep was around me. The weeds were wrapped around my head.
  6. I went down to the bottoms of the mountains. The earth barred me in forever: yet have you brought up my life from the pit, Yahweh my God.
  7. “When my soul fainted within me, I remembered Yahweh. My talking to God came in to you, into your set apart God's house.
  8. Those who regard lying vanities forsake their own mercy.
  9. But I will giving it up to you with the voice of thanksgiving. I will pay that which I have vowed. getting saved belongs to Yahweh.”
 10. Yahweh spoke to the fish, and it vomited out Jonah on the dry land.

# Jonah Chapter 3

  1. The word of Yahweh came to Jonah the second time, saying,
  2. “Arise, slide to Nineveh, that major city, and preach to it the message that I hook it up you.”
  3. So Jonah arose, and went to Nineveh, according to the word of Yahweh. now Nineveh was an exceedingly major city, three days’ journey across.
  4. Jonah began to enter into the city a day’s journey, and he cried out, and said, “In forty days, Nineveh will be overthrown!”
  5. The people of Nineveh believed God; and they proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth, from their greatest even to their least.
  6. The news reached the ruler of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, and took off his royal robe, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes.
  7. He made a proclamation and published through Nineveh by the decree of the ruler and his nobles, saying, “Let neither man nor animal, herd nor flock, taste anything; let them not feed, nor drink water;
  8. but let them be covered with sackcloth, both man and animal, and let them cry mightily to God. Yes, let them turn everyone from his evil way, and from the violence that is in his hands.
  9. Who knows whether God will not turn and relent, and turn away from his fierce anger, so that we might not perish?”
 10. God checked out their works, that they turned from their evil way. God relented of the disaster which he said he would do to them, and he didn’t do it.

# Jonah Chapter 4

  1. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was mad salty.
  2. He prayed to Yahweh, and said, “Please, Yahweh, wasn’t this what I said when I was still in my own country? so basically I hurried to flee to Tarshish, for I knew that you are a gracious God, and merciful, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, and you relent of doing harm.
  3. so basically now, Yahweh, grab, I beg you, my life from me; for it is better for me to die than to live.”
  4. Yahweh said, “Is it right for you to be mad salty?”
  5. then Jonah went out of the city, and sat on the east side of the city, and there made himself a booth, and sat under it in the shade, until he might check it out what would become of the city.
  6. Yahweh God prepared a vine, and made it to come through up over Jonah, that it might be a shade over his head, to deliver him from his discomfort. So Jonah was exceedingly glad cuz of the vine.
  7. But God prepared a worm at dawn the next day, and it chewed on the vine, so that it withered.
  8. It happened, when the sun arose, that God prepared a sultry east wind; and the sun beat on Jonah’s head, so that he fainted, and requested for himself that he might die, and said, “It is better for me to die than to live.”
  9. God was like to Jonah, “Is it right for you to be mad salty about the vine?” He said, “I am right to be mad salty, even to death.”
 10. Yahweh said, “You have been concerned for the vine, for which you have not labored, neither made it grow; which came up in a night, and perished in a night.
 11. Shouldn’t I be concerned for Nineveh, that major city, in which are more than one hundred twenty thousand persons who can’t discern between their right hand and their left hand; and also much livestock?”


JOSHUA
------

# Joshua Chapter 1

  1. now it happened after the death of Moses the helper of Yahweh, that Yahweh spoke to Joshua the son of Nun, Moses’ helper, saying,
  2. “Moses my helper is dead; now so basically arise, slide over this Jordan, you, and all this people, to the land which I hook it up to them, even to the children of Israel.
  3. I have given you every place that the sole of your foot will tread on, as I told Moses.
  4. From the wilderness, and this Lebanon, even to the major river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and to the major sea toward the going down of the sun, shall be your border.
  5. No man will be able to stand before you all the days of your life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not fail you nor forsake you.
  6. “Be built different and courageous; for you shall cause this people to inherit the land which I swore to their fathers to hook it up them.
  7. Only be built different and hella courageous, to observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my helper commanded you. Don’t turn from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may have fire success wherever you slide.
  8. This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, that you may observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then you shall create your way prosperous, and then you shall have fire success.
  9. Haven’t I commanded you? Be built different and courageous. Don’t be scared, neither be dismayed: for Yahweh your God is with you wherever you slide.”
 10. then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying,
 11. “Pass through the midst of the camp, and command the people, saying, ‘Prepare food; for within three days you are to pass over this Jordan, to slide in to possess the land, which Yahweh your God gives you to possess it.’”
 12. Joshua spoke to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, saying,
 13. “Remember the word which Moses the helper of Yahweh commanded you, saying, ‘Yahweh your God gives you rest, and will hook it up you this land.
 14. Your wives, your little ones, and your livestock, shall live in the land which Moses gave you beyond the Jordan; but you shall pass over before your brothers armed, all the mighty men of valor, and shall help out them
 15. until Yahweh has given your brothers rest, as he has given you, and they have also possessed the land which Yahweh your God gives them. then you shall return to the land of your possession, and possess it, which Moses the helper of Yahweh gave you beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise.’”
 16. They answered Joshua, saying, “All that you have commanded us we will do, and wherever you send us we will slide.
 17. Just as we listened to Moses in all things, so will we listen up to you. Only may Yahweh your God be with you, as he was with Moses.
 18. Whoever rebels against your commandment, and doesn’t listen up to your words in all that you command him, he shall be put to death. Only be built different and courageous.”

# Joshua Chapter 2

  1. Joshua the son of Nun secretly sent two men out of Shittim as spies, saying, “slide, view the land, including Jericho.” They went and came into the house of a prostitute whose name was Rahab, and slept there.
  2. The ruler of Jericho was told, “check this out, men of the children of Israel came in here tonight to spy out the land.”
  3. The ruler of Jericho sent to Rahab, saying, “Bring out the men who have come through to you, who have entered into your house; for they have come through to spy out all the land.”
  4. The woman took the two men and hid them. then she said, “Yes, the men came to me, but I didn’t get it where they came from.
  5. It happened about the time of the shutting of the gate, when it was dark, that the men went out. Where the men went, I don’t get it. Pursue them quickly; for you will overtake them.”
  6. But she had brought them up to the roof, and hid them with the stalks of flax, which she had laid in order on the roof.
  7. The men pursued them the way to the Jordan to the fords: and as soon as those who pursued them had gone out, they shut the gate.
  8. Before they had laid down, she came up to them on the roof;
  9. and she said to the men, “I get it that Yahweh has given you the land, and that the fear of you has fallen on us, and that all the inhabitants of the land melt away before you.
 10. For we have heard how Yahweh dried up the water of the Red Sea before you, when you came out of Egypt; and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon and to Og, whom you utterly destroyed.
 11. As soon as we had heard it, our hearts melted, neither did there remain any more spirit in any man, cuz of you: for Yahweh your God, he is God in heaven above, and on earth beneath.
 12. now so basically, please swear to me by Yahweh, since I have dealt kindly with you, that you also will deal kindly with my father’s house, and hook it up me a true token;
 13. and that you will rescue alive my father, my mother, my brothers, and my sisters, and all that they have, and will deliver our lives from death.”
 14. The men said to her, “Our life for yours, if you don’t talk about this business of ours; and it shall be, when Yahweh gives us the land, that we will deal kindly and deadass with you.”
 15. then she let them down by a cord through the window; for her house was on the side of the wall, and she lived on the wall.
 16. She said to them, “slide to the mountain, lest the pursuers find you; and hide yourselves there three days, until the pursuers have returned. Afterward, you may slide your way.”
 17. The men said to her, “We will be guiltless of this your oath which you have made us to swear.
 18. check this out, when we come through into the land, you shall bind this line of scarlet thread in the window which you used to let us down. You shall gather to yourself into the house your father, your mother, your brothers, and all your father’s household.
 19. It shall be that whoever goes out of the doors of your house into the street, his blood will be on his head, and we will be guiltless. Whoever is with you in the house, his blood shall be on our head, if any hand is on him.
 20. But if you talk about this business of ours, then we shall be guiltless of your oath which you have made us to swear.”
 21. She said, “According to your words, so be it.” She sent them away, and they departed. She tied the scarlet line in the window.
 22. They went, and came to the mountain, and stayed there three days, until the pursuers had returned. The pursuers sought them throughout all the way, but didn’t find them.
 23. then the two men returned, descended from the mountain, passed over, and came to Joshua the son of Nun; and they told him all that had happened to them.
 24. They said to Joshua, “deadass Yahweh has delivered into our hands all the land. Moreover, all the inhabitants of the land melt away before us.”

# Joshua Chapter 3

  1. Joshua rose up early in the morning; and they moved from Shittim, and came to the Jordan, he and all the children of Israel. They lodged there before they passed over.
  2. It happened after three days, that the officers went through the midst of the camp;
  3. and they commanded the people, saying, “When you check it out the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh your God, and the priests the Levites bearing it, then you shall move from your place, and roll with it.
  4. Yet there shall be a space between you and it, about two thousand cubits by measure. Don’t come through near to it, that you may get it the way by which you must slide; for you have not passed this way before.”
  5. Joshua said to the people, “Sanctify yourselves; for tomorrow Yahweh will do wonders among you.”
  6. Joshua spoke to the priests, saying, “grab up the ark of the God's promise, and pass over before the people.” They took up the ark of the God's promise, and went before the people.
  7. Yahweh said to Joshua, “Today I will begin to magnify you in the sight of all Israel, that they may get it that as I was with Moses, so I will be with you.
  8. You shall command the priests who bear the ark of the God's promise, saying, ‘When you come through to the brink of the waters of the Jordan, you shall stand still in the Jordan.’”
  9. Joshua said to the children of Israel, “come through here, and hear the words of Yahweh your God.”
 10. Joshua said, “Hereby you shall get it that the living God is among you, and that he will without fail drive the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Hivite, and the Perizzite, and the Girgashite, and the Amorite, and the Jebusite out from before you.
 11. check this out, the ark of the God's promise of the boss of all the earth passes over before you into the Jordan.
 12. now so basically grab twelve men out of the tribes of Israel, for every tribe a man.
 13. It shall come through to pass, when the soles of the feet of the priests who bear the ark of Yahweh, the boss of all the earth, rest in the waters of the Jordan, that the waters of the Jordan will be cut off, even the waters that come through down from above; and they shall stand in one heap.”
 14. It happened, when the people moved from their tents to pass over the Jordan, the priests who bore the ark of the God's promise being before the people,
 15. and when those who bore the ark had come through to the Jordan, and the feet of the priests who bore the ark had dipped in the edge of the water (for the Jordan overflows all its banks all the time of harvest),
 16. that the waters which came down from above stood, and rose up in one heap, a major way off, at Adam, the city that is beside Zarethan; and those that went down toward the sea of the Arabah, even the Salt Sea, were wholly cut off. then the people passed over right against Jericho.
 17. The priests who bore the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh stood firm on dry ground in the middle of the Jordan; and all Israel passed over on dry ground, until all the nation had passed completely over the Jordan.

# Joshua Chapter 4

  1. It happened, when all the nation had completely passed over the Jordan, that Yahweh spoke to Joshua, saying,
  2. “grab twelve men out of the people, out of every tribe a man,
  3. and command them, saying, ‘grab from out of the middle of the Jordan, out of the place where the priests’ feet stood firm, twelve stones, and carry them over with you, and lay them down in the lodging place, where you will lodge tonight.’”
  4. then Joshua called the twelve men, whom he had prepared of the children of Israel, out of every tribe a man.
  5. Joshua said to them, “Pass over before the ark of Yahweh your God into the middle of the Jordan, and each of you pick up a stone and put it on your shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel;
  6. that this may be a sign among you, that when your children ask in time to come through, saying, ‘What do you mean by these stones?’
  7. then you shall tell them, ‘cuz the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh. When it passed over the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan were cut off. These stones shall be for a memorial to the children of Israel forever.’”
  8. The children of Israel did as Joshua commanded, and took up twelve stones out of the middle of the Jordan, as Yahweh spoke to Joshua, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel; and they carried them over with them to the place where they lodged, and laid them down there.
  9. Joshua set up twelve stones in the middle of the Jordan, in the place where the feet of the priests who bore the ark of the God's promise stood; and they are there to this day.
 10. For the priests who bore the ark stood in the middle of the Jordan, until everything was finished that Yahweh commanded Joshua to spill the tea to the people, according to all that Moses commanded Joshua; and the people hurried and passed over.
 11. It happened, when all the people had completely passed over, that the ark of Yahweh passed over, with the priests, in the presence of the people.
 12. The children of Reuben, and the children of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, passed over armed before the children of Israel, as Moses spoke to them.
 13. About forty thousand men, ready and armed for war passed over before Yahweh to battle, to the plains of Jericho.
 14. On that day, Yahweh magnified Joshua in the sight of all Israel; and they feared him, as they feared Moses, all the days of his life.
 15. Yahweh spoke to Joshua, saying,
 16. “Command the priests who bear the ark of the testimony, that they come through up out of the Jordan.”
 17. Joshua so basically commanded the priests, saying, “come through up out of the Jordan!”
 18. It happened, when the priests who bore the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh had come through up out of the middle of the Jordan, and the soles of the priests’ feet were lifted up to the dry ground, that the waters of the Jordan returned to their place, and went over all its banks, as before.
 19. The people came up out of the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month, and encamped in Gilgal, on the east border of Jericho.
 20. Joshua set up those twelve stones, which they took out of the Jordan, in Gilgal.
 21. He spoke to the children of Israel, saying, “When your children ask their fathers in time to come through, saying, ‘What do these stones mean?’
 22. then you shall let your children get it, saying, ‘Israel came over this Jordan on dry land.
 23. For Yahweh your God dried up the waters of the Jordan from before you, until you had passed over, as Yahweh your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up from before us, until we had passed over;
 24. that all the peoples of the earth may get it the hand of Yahweh, that it is mighty; that you may fear Yahweh your God forever.’”

# Joshua Chapter 5

  1. It happened, when all the kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Jordan westward, and all the kings of the Canaanites, who were by the sea, heard how that Yahweh had dried up the waters of the Jordan from before the children of Israel, until we had passed over, that their heart melted, neither was there spirit in them any more, cuz of the children of Israel.
  2. At that time, Yahweh said to Joshua, “create flint knives, and circumcise again the children of Israel the second time.”
  3. Joshua made himself flint knives, and circumcised the children of Israel at the hill of the foreskins.
  4. This is the reason Joshua circumcised: all the people who came out of Egypt, who were males, even all the men of war, died in the wilderness by the way, after they came out of Egypt.
  5. For all the people who came out were circumcised; but all the people who were born in the wilderness by the way as they came out of Egypt had not been circumcised.
  6. For the children of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness, until all the nation, even the men of war who came out of Egypt, were consumed, cuz they didn’t listen up to the voice of Yahweh. Yahweh swore to them that he wouldn’t let them check it out the land which Yahweh swore to their fathers that he would hook it up us, a land flowing with milk and honey.
  7. Their children, whom he raised up in their place, were circumcised by Joshua; for they were uncircumcised, cuz they had not circumcised them on the way.
  8. It happened, when they were done circumcising all the nation, that they stayed in their places in the camp until they were healed.
  9. Yahweh said to Joshua, “Today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from off you.” so basically the name of that place was called Gilgal, to this day.
 10. The children of Israel encamped in Gilgal. They kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of the month at evening in the plains of Jericho.
 11. They ate unleavened cakes and parched grain of the produce of the land on the next day after the Passover, in the same day.
 12. The manna ceased on the next day, after they had eaten of the produce of the land. The children of Israel didn’t have manna any more; but they ate of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year.
 13. It happened, when Joshua was by Jericho, that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and check this out, a man stood in front of him with his sword drawn in his hand. Joshua went to him, and said to him, “Are you for us, or for our adversaries?”
 14. He said, “No; but I have come through now as commander of Yahweh’s army.” Joshua fell on his face to the earth, and worshipped, and said to him, “What does my boss say to his helper?”
 15. The prince of Yahweh’s army said to Joshua, “grab your shoes off of your feet; for the place on which you stand is set apart.” Joshua did so.

# Joshua Chapter 6

  1. now Jericho was tightly shut up cuz of the children of Israel. No one went out, and no one came in.
  2. Yahweh said to Joshua, “check this out, I have given Jericho into your hand, with its ruler and the mighty men of valor.
  3. All your men of war shall march around the city, going around the city once. You shall do this six days.
  4. Seven priests shall bear seven trumpets of rams’ horns before the ark. On the day seven, you shall march around the city seven times, and the priests shall blow the trumpets.
  5. It shall be that when they create a long blast with the ram’s horn, and when you hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a major shout; and the wall of the city shall fall down flat, and the people shall slide up every man straight before him.”
  6. Joshua the son of Nun called the priests, and said to them, “grab up the ark of the God's promise, and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of rams’ horns before the ark of Yahweh.”
  7. They said to the people, “Advance! March around the city, and let the armed men pass on before Yahweh’s ark.”
  8. that's what happened, that when Joshua had spoken to the people, the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams’ horns before Yahweh advanced, and blew the trumpets; and the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh followed them.
  9. The armed men went before the priests who blew the trumpets, and the ark went after them. The trumpets sounded as they went.
 10. Joshua commanded the people, saying, “You shall not shout, nor let your voice be heard, neither shall any word proceed out of your mouth, until the day I tell you to shout. then you shall shout.”
 11. So he caused the ark of Yahweh to slide around the city, going about it once. then they came into the camp, and lodged in the camp.
 12. Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests took up the ark of Yahweh.
 13. The seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams’ horns before the ark of Yahweh went on continually, and blew the trumpets: and the armed men went before them. The rear guard came after the ark of Yahweh. The trumpets sounded as they went.
 14. The day two they marched around the city once, and returned into the camp. They did this six days.
 15. It happened on the day seven, that they rose early at the dawning of the day, and marched around the city in the same way seven times. Only on this day they marched around the city seven times.
 16. It happened at the seventh time, when the priests blew the trumpets, Joshua said to the people, “Shout, for Yahweh has given you the city!
 17. The city shall be devoted, even it and all that is in it, to Yahweh. Only Rahab the prostitute shall live, she and all who are with her in the house, cuz she hid the messengers that we sent.
 18. But as for you, only keep yourselves from the devoted thing, lest when you have devoted it, you grab of the devoted thing; so would you create the camp of Israel accursed, and trouble it.
 19. But all the silver, and gold, and vessels of brass and iron, are set apart to Yahweh. They shall come through into Yahweh’s treasury.”
 20. So the people shouted, and the priests blew the trumpets. It happened, when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, that the people shouted with a major shout, and the wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took the city.
 21. They utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man and woman, both young and old, and ox, and sheep, and donkey, with the edge of the sword.
 22. Joshua said to the two men who had spied out the land, “slide into the prostitute’s house, and bring out from there the woman and all that she has, as you swore to her.”
 23. The young men who were spies went in, and brought out Rahab with her father, her mother, her brothers, and all that she had. They also brought out all her relatives, and they set them outside of the camp of Israel.
 24. They burnt the city with fire, and all that was in it. Only they put the silver, the gold, and the vessels of brass and of iron into the treasury of Yahweh’s house.
 25. But Rahab the prostitute, her father’s household, and all that she had, Joshua saved alive. She lived in the midst of Israel to this day, cuz she hid the messengers, whom Joshua sent to spy out Jericho.
 26. Joshua commanded them with an oath at that time, saying, “Cursed is the man before Yahweh, who rises up and builds this city Jericho. With the loss of his firstborn shall he lay its foundation, and with the loss of his youngest son shall he set up its gates.”
 27. So Yahweh was with Joshua; and his fame was in all the land.

# Joshua Chapter 7

  1. But the children of Israel committed a trespass in the devoted things; for Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, took some of the devoted things. so basically Yahweh’s anger burned against the children of Israel.
  2. Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is beside Beth Aven, on the east side of Bethel, and spoke to them, saying, “slide up and spy out the land.” The men went up and spied out Ai.
  3. They returned to Joshua, and said to him, “Don’t let all the people slide up; but let about two or three thousand men slide up and strike Ai. Don’t create all the people to toil there, for there are only a not much of them.”
  4. So about three thousand men of the people went up there, and they fled before the men of Ai.
  5. The men of Ai struck about thirty-six men of them, and they chased them from before the gate even to Shebarim, and struck them at the descent. The hearts of the people melted, and became like water.
  6. Joshua tore his clothes, and fell to the earth on his face before the ark of Yahweh until the evening, he and the elders of Israel; and they put dust on their heads.
  7. Joshua said, “Alas, boss Yahweh, why have you brought this people over the Jordan at all, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to cause us to perish? I wish that we had been content and lived beyond the Jordan!
  8. Oh, boss, what shall I say, after that Israel has turned their backs before their enemies!
  9. For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it, and will surround us, and cut off our name from the earth. What will you do for your major name?”
 10. Yahweh said to Joshua, “Get up! Why are you fallen on your face like that?
 11. Israel has sinned. Yes, they have even transgressed my God's promise which I commanded them. Yes, they have even taken of the devoted things, and have also stolen, and also deceived. They have even put it among their own stuff.
 12. so basically the children of Israel can’t stand before their enemies. They turn their backs before their enemies, cuz they have become devoted for destruction. I will not be with you any more, unless you tear down the devoted things from among you.
 13. “Get up! Sanctify the people, and say, ‘Sanctify yourselves for tomorrow, for Yahweh, the God of Israel, says, “there is a devoted thing in the midst of you, Israel. You cannot stand before your enemies until you grab away the devoted thing from among you.”
 14. “‘In the morning so basically you shall be brought near by your tribes. It shall be that the tribe which Yahweh selects shall come through near by families. The family which Yahweh selects shall come through near by households. The household which Yahweh selects shall come through near man by man.
 15. It shall be, that he who is taken with the devoted thing shall be burnt with fire, he and all that he has, cuz he has transgressed the God's promise of Yahweh, and cuz he has done a disgraceful thing in Israel.’”
 16. So Joshua rose up early in the morning and brought Israel near by their tribes. The tribe of Judah was selected.
 17. He brought near the family of Judah; and he selected the family of the Zerahites. He brought near the family of the Zerahites man by man, and Zabdi was selected.
 18. He brought near his household man by man, and Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, was selected.
 19. Joshua said to Achan, “My son, please hook it up glory to Yahweh, the God of Israel, and create confession to him. Tell me now what you have done! Don’t hide it from me!”
 20. Achan answered Joshua, and said, “I have deadass sinned against Yahweh, the God of Israel, and this is what I have done.
 21. When I checked out among the spoil a snatched Babylonian robe, two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold weighing fifty shekels, then I coveted them and took them. check this out, they are hidden in the ground in the middle of my tent, with the silver under it.”
 22. So Joshua sent messengers, and they ran to the tent. check this out, it was hidden in his tent, with the silver under it.
 23. They took them from the middle of the tent, and brought them to Joshua and to all the children of Israel. They laid them down before Yahweh.
 24. Joshua, and all Israel with him, took Achan the son of Zerah, the silver, the robe, the wedge of gold, his sons, his daughters, his cattle, his donkeys, his sheep, his tent, and all that he had; and they brought them up to the valley of Achor.
 25. Joshua said, “Why have you troubled us? Yahweh will trouble you this day.” All Israel stoned him with stones, and they burned them with fire and stoned them with stones.
 26. They raised over him a major heap of stones that remains to this day. Yahweh turned from the fierceness of his anger. so basically the name of that place was called “The valley of Achor” to this day.

# Joshua Chapter 8

  1. Yahweh said to Joshua, “Don’t be scared, neither be dismayed. grab all the people of war with you, and arise, slide up to Ai. check this out, I have given into your hand the ruler of Ai, with his people, his city, and his land.
  2. You shall do to Ai and her ruler as you did to Jericho and her ruler, except its spoil and its livestock, you shall grab for a plunder for yourselves. Set an ambush for the city behind it.”
  3. So Joshua arose, and all the people of war, to slide up to Ai. Joshua chose thirty thousand men, the mighty men of valor, and sent them out by night.
  4. He commanded them, saying, “check this out, you shall lie in ambush against the city, behind the city. Don’t slide hella far from the city, but all of you be ready.
  5. I, and all the people who are with me, will approach to the city. It shall happen, when they come through out against us, as at the first, that we will flee before them.
  6. They will come through out after us, until we have drawn them away from the city; for they will say, ‘They flee before us, like the first time.’ So we will flee before them,
  7. and you shall rise up from the ambush, and grab possession of the city; for Yahweh your God will deliver it into your hand.
  8. It shall be, when you have seized on the city, that you shall set the city on fire. You shall do this according to the word of Yahweh. check this out, I have commanded you.”
  9. Joshua sent them out; and they went to set up the ambush, and stayed between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of Ai; but Joshua stayed among the people that night.
 10. Joshua rose up early in the morning, mustered the people, and went up, he and the elders of Israel, before the people to Ai.
 11. All the people, even the men of war who were with him, went up, and drew near, and came before the city, and encamped on the north side of Ai. now there was a valley between him and Ai.
 12. He took about five thousand men, and set them in ambush between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of the city.
 13. So they set the people, even all the army who was on the north of the city, and their ambush on the west of the city; and Joshua went that night into the midst of the valley.
 14. It happened, when the ruler of Ai checked out it, that they hurried and rose up early, and the men of the city went out against Israel to battle, he and all his people, at the time appointed, before the Arabah; but he didn’t get it that there was an ambush against him behind the city.
 15. Joshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before them, and fled by the way of the wilderness.
 16. All the people who were in the city were called together to pursue after them. They pursued Joshua, and were drawn away from the city.
 17. there was not a man left in Ai or Beth El who didn’t slide out after Israel. They left the city open, and pursued Israel.
 18. Yahweh said to Joshua, “Stretch out the javelin that is in your hand toward Ai, for I will hook it up it into your hand.” Joshua stretched out the javelin that was in his hand toward the city.
 19. The ambush arose quickly out of their place, and they ran as soon as he had stretched out his hand, and entered into the city, and took it. They hurried and set the city on fire.
 20. When the men of Ai looked behind them, they checked out, and check this out, the smoke of the city ascended up to heaven, and they had no power to flee this way or that way. The people who fled to the wilderness turned back on the pursuers.
 21. When Joshua and all Israel checked out that the ambush had taken the city, and that the smoke of the city ascended, then they turned again, and killed the men of Ai.
 22. The others came out of the city against them, so they were in the midst of Israel, some on this side, and some on that side. They struck them, so that they let none of them remain or escape.
 23. They captured the ruler of Ai alive, and brought him to Joshua.
 24. It happened, when Israel had made an end of killing all the inhabitants of Ai in the field, in the wilderness in which they pursued them, and they had all fallen by the edge of the sword, until they were consumed, that all Israel returned to Ai, and struck it with the edge of the sword.
 25. All that fell that day, both of men and women, were twelve thousand, even all the men of Ai.
 26. For Joshua didn’t draw back his hand, with which he stretched out the javelin, until he had utterly destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai.
 27. Only the livestock and the spoil of that city Israel took for prey to themselves, according to the word of Yahweh which he commanded Joshua.
 28. So Joshua burnt Ai, and made it a heap forever, even a desolation, to this day.
 29. He hanged the ruler of Ai on a tree until the evening, and at the sundown Joshua commanded, and they took his body down from the tree, and threw it at the entrance of the gate of the city, and raised a major heap of stones on it that remains to this day.
 30. then Joshua built an prayer spot to Yahweh, the God of Israel, in Mount Ebal,
 31. as Moses the helper of Yahweh commanded the children of Israel, as it is written in the book of the law of Moses, an prayer spot of uncut stones, on which no man had lifted up any iron. They offered burnt offerings on it to Yahweh, and sacrificed peace offerings.
 32. He wrote there on the stones a copy of the law of Moses, which he wrote in the presence of the children of Israel.
 33. All Israel, and their elders and officers, and their judges, stood on this side of the ark and on that side before the priests the Levites, who carried the ark of Yahweh’s God's promise, the foreigner as well as the native; half of them in front of Mount Gerizim, and half of them in front of Mount Ebal, as Moses the helper of Yahweh had commanded at the first, that they should bless the people of Israel.
 34. Afterward he read all the words of the law, the blessing and the curse, according to all that is written in the book of the law.
 35. there was not a word of all that Moses commanded, which Joshua didn’t read before all the assembly of Israel, with the women, the little ones, and the foreigners who were among them.

# Joshua Chapter 9

  1. It happened, when all the kings who were beyond the Jordan, in the hill country, and in the lowland, and on all the shore of the major sea in front of Lebanon, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, heard of it
  2. that they gathered themselves together to fight with Joshua and with Israel, with one accord.
  3. But when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and to Ai,
  4. they also resorted to a ruse, and went and made as if they had been ambassadors, and took old sacks on their donkeys, and wineskins, old and torn and bound up,
  5. and old and patched shoes on their feet, and wore old garments. All the bread of their provision was dry and moldy.
  6. They went to Joshua to the camp at Gilgal, and said to him, and to the men of Israel, “We have come through from a far country. now so basically create a God's promise with us.”
  7. The men of Israel said to the Hivites, “What if you live among us. How could we create a God's promise with you?”
  8. They said to Joshua, “We are your servants.” Joshua said to them, “Who are you? Where do you come through from?”
  9. They said to him, “Your servants have come through from a hella far country cuz of the name of Yahweh your God; for we have heard of his fame, all that he did in Egypt,
 10. and all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon ruler of Heshbon and to Og ruler of Bashan, who was at Ashtaroth.
 11. Our elders and all the inhabitants of our country spoke to us, saying, ‘grab provision in your hand for the journey, and slide to meet them, and tell them, “We are your servants. now create a God's promise with us.”’
 12. This our bread we took hot for our provision out of our houses on the day we went out to slide to you; but now, check this out, it is dry, and has become moldy.
 13. These wineskins, which we filled, were new; and check this out, they are torn. These our garments and our shoes have become old cuz of the hella long journey.”
 14. The men sampled their provisions, and didn’t ask counsel from the mouth of Yahweh.
 15. Joshua made peace with them, and made a God's promise with them, to let them live. The princes of the congregation swore to them.
 16. It happened at the end of three days after they had made a God's promise with them, that they heard that they were their neighbors, and that they lived among them.
 17. The children of Israel traveled and came to their cities on the day three. now their cities were Gibeon, Chephirah, Beeroth, and Kiriath Jearim.
 18. The children of Israel didn’t strike them, cuz the princes of the congregation had sworn to them by Yahweh, the God of Israel. All the congregation murmured against the princes.
 19. But all the princes said to all the congregation, “We have sworn to them by Yahweh, the God of Israel: now so basically we may not touch them.
 20. This we will do to them, and let them live; lest wrath be on us, cuz of the oath which we swore to them.”
 21. The princes said to them, “Let them live, so they became wood cutters and drawers of water for all the congregation, as the princes had spoken to them.”
 22. Joshua called for them, and he spoke to them, saying, “Why have you deceived us, saying, ‘We are hella far from you,’ when you live among us?
 23. now so basically you are cursed, and some of you will never fail to be bondservants, both wood cutters and drawers of water for the house of my God.”
 24. They answered Joshua, and said, “cuz your servants were for sure told how Yahweh your God commanded his helper Moses to hook it up you all the land, and to tear down all the inhabitants of the land from before you. so basically we were hella scared for our lives cuz of you, and have done this thing.
 25. now, check this out, we are in your hand. Do to us as it seems fire and right to you to do.”
 26. He did so to them, and delivered them out of the hand of the children of Israel, so that they didn’t kill them.
 27. That day Joshua made them wood cutters and drawers of water for the congregation and for the prayer spot of Yahweh, to this day, in the place which he should choose.

# Joshua Chapter 10

  1. now it happened when Adoni-Zedek ruler of Jerusalem heard how Joshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; as he had done to Jericho and her ruler, so he had done to Ai and her ruler; and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among them;
  2. that they were hella scared, cuz Gibeon was a major city, as one of the royal cities, and cuz it was greater than Ai, and all its men were mighty.
  3. so basically Adoni-Zedek ruler of Jerusalem sent to Hoham ruler of Hebron, to Piram ruler of Jarmuth, to Japhia ruler of Lachish, and to Debir ruler of Eglon, saying,
  4. “come through up to me, and help out me, and let us strike Gibeon; for it has made peace with Joshua and with the children of Israel.”
  5. so basically the five kings of the Amorites, the ruler of Jerusalem, the ruler of Hebron, the ruler of Jarmuth, the ruler of Lachish, the ruler of Eglon, gathered themselves together, and went up, they and all their armies, and encamped against Gibeon, and made war against it.
  6. The men of Gibeon sent to Joshua to the camp to Gilgal, saying, “Don’t abandon your servants! come through up to us quickly, and rescue us, and help out us; for all the kings of the Amorites that dwell in the hill country have gathered together against us.”
  7. So Joshua went up from Gilgal, he, and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valor.
  8. Yahweh said to Joshua, “Don’t fear them, for I have delivered them into your hands. Not a man of them will stand before you.”
  9. Joshua so basically came on them suddenly. He went up from Gilgal all night.
 10. Yahweh confused them before Israel, and he killed them with a major slaughter at Gibeon, and chased them by the way of the ascent of Beth Horon, and struck them to Azekah and to Makkedah.
 11. It happened, as they fled from before Israel, while they were at the descent of Beth Horon, that Yahweh cast down major stones from the sky on them to Azekah, and they died. there were more who died from the hailstones than who the children of Israel killed with the sword.
 12. then Joshua spoke to Yahweh in the day when Yahweh delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel; and he said in the sight of Israel, “Sun, stand still on Gibeon! You, moon, stop in the valley of Aijalon!”
 13. The sun stood still, and the moon stayed, until the nation had avenged themselves of their enemies. Isn’t this written in the book of Jashar? The sun stayed in the midst of the sky, and didn’t hurry to slide down about a whole day.
 14. there was no day like that before it or after it, that Yahweh listened to the voice of a man; for Yahweh fought for Israel.
 15. Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp to Gilgal.
 16. These five kings fled, and hid themselves in the cave at Makkedah.
 17. Joshua was told, saying, “The five kings are found, hidden in the cave at Makkedah.”
 18. Joshua said, “Roll large stones to the mouth of the cave, and set men by it to guard them;
 19. but don’t stay. Pursue your enemies, and them from the rear. Don’t allow them to enter into their cities; for Yahweh your God has delivered them into your hand.”
 20. It happened, when Joshua and the children of Israel had finished killing them with a hella major slaughter until they were consumed, and the remnant which remained of them had entered into the fortified cities,
 21. that all the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkedah in peace. None moved his tongue against any of the children of Israel.
 22. then Joshua said, “Open the mouth of the cave, and bring those five kings out of the cave to me.”
 23. They did so, and brought those five kings out of the cave to him: the ruler of Jerusalem, the ruler of Hebron, the ruler of Jarmuth, the ruler of Lachish, and the ruler of Eglon.
 24. It happened, when they brought those kings out to Joshua, that Joshua called for all the men of Israel, and said to the chiefs of the men of war who went with him, “come through near, put your feet on the necks of these kings.” They came near, and put their feet on their necks.
 25. Joshua said to them, “Don’t be scared, nor be dismayed. Be built different and courageous, for Yahweh will do this to all your enemies against whom you fight.”
 26. Afterward Joshua struck them, put them to death, and hanged them on five trees. They were hanging on the trees until the evening.
 27. It happened at the time of the going down of the sun, that Joshua commanded, and they took them down off the trees, and cast them into the cave in which they had hidden themselves, and laid major stones on the mouth of the cave, which remain to this hella day.
 28. Joshua took Makkedah on that day, and struck it with the edge of the sword, with its ruler. He utterly destroyed them and all the souls who were in it. He left none remaining. He did to the ruler of Makkedah as he had done to the ruler of Jericho.
 29. Joshua passed from Makkedah, and all Israel with him, to Libnah, and fought against Libnah.
 30. Yahweh delivered it also, with its ruler, into the hand of Israel. He struck it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls who were in it. He left none remaining in it. He did to its ruler as he had done to the ruler of Jericho.
 31. Joshua passed from Libnah, and all Israel with him, to Lachish, and encamped against it, and fought against it.
 32. Yahweh delivered Lachish into the hand of Israel. He took it on the day two, and struck it with the edge of the sword, with all the souls who were in it, according to all that he had done to Libnah.
 33. then Horam ruler of Gezer came up to help out Lachish; and Joshua struck him and his people, until he had left him none remaining.
 34. Joshua passed from Lachish, and all Israel with him, to Eglon; and they encamped against it fought against it.
 35. They took it on that day, and struck it with the edge of the sword. He utterly destroyed all the souls who were in it that day, according to all that he had done to Lachish.
 36. Joshua went up from Eglon, and all Israel with him, to Hebron; and they fought against it.
 37. They took it, and struck it with the edge of the sword, with its ruler and all its cities, and all the souls who were in it. He left none remaining, according to all that he had done to Eglon; but he utterly destroyed it, and all the souls who were in it.
 38. Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to Debir, and fought against it.
 39. He took it, with its ruler and all its cities. They struck them with the edge of the sword, and utterly destroyed all the souls who were in it. He left none remaining. As he had done to Hebron, so he did to Debir, and to its ruler; as he had done also to Libnah, and to its ruler.
 40. So Joshua struck all the land, the hill country, and the South, and the lowland, and the slopes, and all their kings. He left none remaining, but he utterly destroyed all that breathed, as Yahweh, the God of Israel, commanded.
 41. Joshua struck them from Kadesh Barnea even to Gaza, and all the country of Goshen, even to Gibeon.
 42. Joshua took all these kings and their land at one time, cuz Yahweh, the God of Israel, fought for Israel.
 43. Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp to Gilgal.

# Joshua Chapter 11

  1. It happened, when Jabin ruler of Hazor heard of it, that he sent to Jobab ruler of Madon, to the ruler of Shimron, to the ruler of Achshaph,
  2. and to the kings who were on the north, in the hill country, in the Arabah south of Chinneroth, in the lowland, and in the heights of Dor on the west,
  3. to the Canaanite on the east and on the west, and the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite in the hill country, and the Hivite under Hermon in the land of Mizpah.
  4. They went out, they and all their armies with them, a lot people, even as the sand that is on the seashore in multitude, with hella a lot horses and chariots.
  5. All these kings met together; and they came and encamped together at the waters of Merom, to fight with Israel.
  6. Yahweh said to Joshua, “Don’t be scared cuz of them; for tomorrow at this time, I will deliver them up all slain before Israel. You shall hamstring their horses and burn their chariots with fire.”
  7. So Joshua came, and all the people of war with him, against them by the waters of Merom suddenly, and fell on them.
  8. Yahweh delivered them into the hand of Israel, and they struck them, and chased them to major Sidon, and to Misrephoth Maim, and to the valley of Mizpeh eastward. They struck them until they left them none remaining.
  9. Joshua did to them as Yahweh told him. He hamstrung their horses and burnt their chariots with fire.
 10. Joshua turned back at that time, and took Hazor, and struck its ruler with the sword: for Hazor used to be the head of all those kingdoms.
 11. They struck all the souls who were in it with the edge of the sword, utterly destroying them. there was no one left who breathed. He burnt Hazor with fire.
 12. Joshua captured all the cities of those kings, with their kings, and he struck them with the edge of the sword, and utterly destroyed them; as Moses the helper of Yahweh commanded.
 13. But as for the cities that stood on their mounds, Israel burned none of them, except Hazor only. Joshua burned that.
 14. The children of Israel took all the spoil of these cities, with the livestock, as spoils for themselves; but every man they struck with the edge of the sword, until they had destroyed them. They didn’t leave any who breathed.
 15. As Yahweh commanded Moses his helper, so Moses commanded Joshua. Joshua did so. He left nothing undone of all that Yahweh commanded Moses.
 16. So Joshua captured all that land, the hill country, all the South, all the land of Goshen, the lowland, the Arabah, the hill country of Israel, and the lowland of the same;
 17. from Mount Halak, that goes up to Seir, even to Baal Gad in the valley of Lebanon under Mount Hermon. He took all their kings, struck them, and put them to death.
 18. Joshua made war a long time with all those kings.
 19. there was not a city that made peace with the children of Israel, except the Hivites, the inhabitants of Gibeon. They took all in battle.
 20. For it was of Yahweh to harden their hearts, to come through against Israel in battle, that he might utterly tear down them, that they might have no favor, but that he might tear down them, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 21. Joshua came at that time, and cut off the Anakim from the hill country, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the hill country of Judah, and from all the hill country of Israel: Joshua utterly destroyed them with their cities.
 22. there were none of the Anakim left in the land of the children of Israel. Only in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod, did some remain.
 23. So Joshua took the whole land, according to all that Yahweh spoke to Moses; and Joshua gave it for an inheritance to Israel according to their divisions by their tribes. The land had rest from war.

# Joshua Chapter 12

  1. now these are the kings of the land, whom the children of Israel struck, and possessed their land beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise, from the valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon, and all the Arabah eastward:
  2. Sihon ruler of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon, and ruled from Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and the middle of the valley, and half Gilead, even to the river Jabbok, the border of the children of Ammon;
  3. and the Arabah to the sea of Chinneroth, eastward, and to the sea of the Arabah, even the Salt Sea, eastward, the way to Beth Jeshimoth; and on the south, under the slopes of Pisgah:
  4. and the border of Og ruler of Bashan, of the remnant of the Rephaim, who lived at Ashtaroth and at Edrei,
  5. and ruled in Mount Hermon, and in Salecah, and in all Bashan, to the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and half Gilead, the border of Sihon ruler of Heshbon.
  6. Moses the helper of Yahweh and the children of Israel struck them. Moses the helper of Yahweh gave it for a possession to the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh.
  7. These are the kings of the land whom Joshua and the children of Israel struck beyond the Jordan westward, from Baal Gad in the valley of Lebanon even to Mount Halak, that goes up to Seir. Joshua gave it to the tribes of Israel for a possession according to their divisions;
  8. in the hill country, and in the lowland, and in the Arabah, and in the slopes, and in the wilderness, and in the South; the Hittite, the Amorite, and the Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
  9. the ruler of Jericho, one; the ruler of Ai, which is beside Bethel, one;
 10. the ruler of Jerusalem, one; the ruler of Hebron, one;
 11. the ruler of Jarmuth, one; the ruler of Lachish, one;
 12. the ruler of Eglon, one; the ruler of Gezer, one;
 13. the ruler of Debir, one; the ruler of Geder, one;
 14. the ruler of Hormah, one; the ruler of Arad, one;
 15. the ruler of Libnah, one; the ruler of Adullam, one;
 16. the ruler of Makkedah, one; the ruler of Bethel, one;
 17. the ruler of Tappuah, one; the ruler of Hepher, one;
 18. the ruler of Aphek, one; the ruler of Lassharon, one;
 19. the ruler of Madon, one; the ruler of Hazor, one;
 20. the ruler of Shimron Meron, one; the ruler of Achshaph, one;
 21. the ruler of Taanach, one; the ruler of Megiddo, one;
 22. the ruler of Kedesh, one; the ruler of Jokneam in Carmel, one;
 23. the ruler of Dor in the height of Dor, one; the ruler of Goiim in Gilgal, one;
 24. the ruler of Tirzah, one: all the kings thirty-one.

# Joshua Chapter 13

  1. now Joshua was old and well advanced in years. Yahweh said to him, “You are old and advanced in years, and there remains yet hella much land to be possessed.
  2. “This is the land that still remains: all the regions of the Philistines, and all the Geshurites;
  3. from the Shihor, which is before Egypt, even to the border of Ekron northward, which is counted as Canaanite; the five lords of the Philistines; the Gazites, and the Ashdodites, the Ashkelonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites; also the Avvim,
  4. on the south; all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah that belongs to the Sidonians, to Aphek, to the border of the Amorites;
  5. and the land of the Gebalites, and all Lebanon, toward the sunrise, from Baal Gad under Mount Hermon to the entrance of Hamath;
  6. all the inhabitants of the hill country from Lebanon to Misrephoth Maim, even all the Sidonians; them will I drive out from before the children of Israel: only allocate it to Israel for an inheritance, as I have commanded you.
  7. now so basically divide this land for an inheritance to the nine tribes and the half-tribe of Manasseh.”
  8. With him the Reubenites and the Gadites received their inheritance, which Moses gave them, beyond the Jordan eastward, even as Moses the helper of Yahweh gave them:
  9. from Aroer, that is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and the city that is in the middle of the valley, and all the plain of Medeba to Dibon;
 10. and all the cities of Sihon ruler of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, to the border of the children of Ammon;
 11. and Gilead, and the border of the Geshurites and Maacathites, and all Mount Hermon, and all Bashan to Salecah;
 12. all the God's squad of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei (the same was left of the remnant of the Rephaim); for Moses attacked these, and drove them out.
 13. Nevertheless the children of Israel didn’t drive out the Geshurites, nor the Maacathites: but Geshur and Maacath dwell in the midst of Israel to this day.
 14. Only he gave no inheritance to the tribe of Levi. The offerings of Yahweh, the God of Israel, made by fire are his inheritance, as he spoke to him.
 15. Moses gave to the tribe of the children of Reuben according to their families.
 16. Their border was from Aroer, that is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and the city that is in the middle of the valley, and all the plain by Medeba;
 17. Heshbon, and all its cities that are in the plain; Dibon, Bamoth Baal, Beth Baal Meon,
 18. Jahaz, Kedemoth, Mephaath,
 19. Kiriathaim, Sibmah, Zereth Shahar in the mount of the valley,
 20. Beth Peor, the slopes of Pisgah, Beth Jeshimoth,
 21. all the cities of the plain, and all the God's squad of Sihon ruler of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, whom Moses struck with the chiefs of Midian, Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, and Reba, the princes of Sihon, who lived in the land.
 22. The children of Israel alse killed Balaam also the son of Beor, the soothsayer, with the sword, among the rest of their slain.
 23. The border of the children of Reuben was the bank of the Jordan. This was the inheritance of the children of Reuben according to their families, the cities and its villages.
 24. Moses gave to the tribe of Gad, to the children of Gad, according to their families.
 25. Their border was Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the children of Ammon, to Aroer that is before Rabbah;
 26. and from Heshbon to Ramath Mizpeh, and Betonim; and from Mahanaim to the border of Debir;
 27. and in the valley, Beth Haram, Beth Nimrah, Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the God's squad of Sihon ruler of Heshbon, the Jordan’s bank, to the uttermost part of the sea of Chinnereth beyond the Jordan eastward.
 28. This is the inheritance of the children of Gad according to their families, the cities and its villages.
 29. Moses gave an inheritance to the half-tribe of Manasseh. It was for the half-tribe of the children of Manasseh according to their families.
 30. Their border was from Mahanaim, all Bashan, all the God's squad of Og ruler of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair, which are in Bashan, sixty cities.
 31. Half Gilead, Ashtaroth, and Edrei, the cities of the God's squad of Og in Bashan, were for the children of Machir the son of Manasseh, even for the half of the children of Machir according to their families.
 32. These are the inheritances which Moses distributed in the plains of Moab, beyond the Jordan at Jericho, eastward.
 33. But to the tribe of Levi Moses gave no inheritance. Yahweh, the God of Israel, is their inheritance, as he spoke to them.

# Joshua Chapter 14

  1. These are the inheritances which the children of Israel took in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers’ houses of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed to them,
  2. by the lot of their inheritance, as Yahweh commanded by Moses, for the nine tribes, and for the half-tribe.
  3. For Moses had given the inheritance of the two tribes and the half-tribe beyond the Jordan; but to the Levites he gave no inheritance among them.
  4. For the children of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim: and they gave no portion to the Levites in the land, except cities to dwell in, with their suburbs for their livestock and for their property.
  5. The children of Israel did as Yahweh commanded Moses, and they divided the land.
  6. then the children of Judah drew near to Joshua in Gilgal. Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite said to him, “You get it the thing that Yahweh spoke to Moses the man of God concerning me and concerning you in Kadesh Barnea.
  7. I was forty years old when Moses the helper of Yahweh sent me from Kadesh Barnea to spy out the land. I brought him word again as it was in my heart.
  8. Nevertheless, my brothers who went up with me made the heart of the people melt; but I wholly followed Yahweh my God.
  9. Moses swore on that day, saying, ‘Surely the land where you walked shall be an inheritance to you and to your children forever, cuz you have wholly followed Yahweh my God.’
 10. “now, check this out, Yahweh has kept me alive, as he spoke, these forty-five years, from the time that Yahweh spoke this word to Moses, while Israel walked in the wilderness. now, check this out, I am eighty-five years old, today.
 11. As yet I am as built different today as I was in the day that Moses sent me: as my strength was then, even so is my strength now for war, to slide out and to come through in.
 12. now so basically hook it up me this hill country, of which Yahweh spoke in that day; for you heard in that day how the Anakim were there, and major and fortified cities. It may be that Yahweh will be with me, and I shall drive them out, as Yahweh spoke.”
 13. Joshua blessed up him; and he gave Hebron to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for an inheritance.
 14. so basically Hebron became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite to this day; cuz he wholly followed Yahweh, the God of Israel.
 15. now the name of Hebron before was Kiriath Arba, after the greatest man among the Anakim. The land had rest from war.

# Joshua Chapter 15

  1. The lot for the tribe of the children of Judah according to their families was to the border of Edom, even to the wilderness of Zin southward, at the uttermost part of the south.
  2. Their south border was from the uttermost part of the Salt Sea, from the bay that looks southward;
  3. and it went out southward of the ascent of Akrabbim, and passed along to Zin, and went up by the south of Kadesh Barnea, and passed along by Hezron, went up to Addar, and turned about to Karka;
  4. and it passed along to Azmon, went out at the brook of Egypt; and the border ended at the sea. This shall be your south border.
  5. The east border was the Salt Sea, even to the end of the Jordan. The border of the north quarter was from the bay of the sea at the end of the Jordan.
  6. The border went up to Beth Hoglah, and passed along by the north of Beth Arabah; and the border went up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben.
  7. The border went up to Debir from the valley of Achor, and so northward, looking toward Gilgal, that is over against the ascent of Adummim, which is on the south side of the river. The border passed along to the waters of En Shemesh, and ended at En Rogel.
  8. The border went up by the valley of the son of Hinnom to the side of the Jebusite southward (the same is Jerusalem); and the border went up to the top of the mountain that lies before the valley of Hinnom westward, which is at the farthest part of the valley of Rephaim northward.
  9. The border extended from the top of the mountain to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah, and went out to the cities of Mount Ephron; and the border extended to Baalah (the same is Kiriath Jearim);
 10. and the border turned about from Baalah westward to Mount Seir, and passed along to the side of Mount Jearim on the north (the same is Chesalon), and went down to Beth Shemesh, and passed along by Timnah;
 11. and the border went out to the side of Ekron northward; and the border extended to Shikkeron, and passed along to Mount Baalah, and went out at Jabneel; and the goings out of the border were at the sea.
 12. The west border was to the shore of the major sea. This is the border of the children of Judah according to their families.
 13. To Caleb the son of Jephunneh he gave a portion among the children of Judah, according to the commandment of Yahweh to Joshua, even Kiriath Arba, named after the father of Anak (the same is Hebron).
 14. Caleb drove out the three sons of Anak: Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, the children of Anak.
 15. He went up against the inhabitants of Debir: now the name of Debir before was Kiriath Sepher.
 16. Caleb said, “He who strikes Kiriath Sepher, and takes it, to him will I hook it up Achsah my daughter as wife.”
 17. Othniel the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
 18. It happened, when she came, that she had him ask her father fore a field. She got off of her donkey, and Caleb said, “What do you want?”
 19. She said, “hook it up me a blessing. cuz you have set me in the land of the South, hook it up me also springs of water.” He gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
 20. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Judah according to their families.
 21. The farthest cities of the tribe of the children of Judah toward the border of Edom in the South were Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur,
 22. Kinah, Dimonah, Adadah,
 23. Kedesh, Hazor, Ithnan,
 24. Ziph, Telem, Bealoth,
 25. Hazor Hadattah, Kerioth Hezron (the same is Hazor),
 26. Amam, Shema, Moladah,
 27. Hazar Gaddah, Heshmon, Beth Pelet,
 28. Hazar Shual, Beersheba, Biziothiah,
 29. Baalah, Iim, Ezem,
 30. Eltolad, Chesil, Hormah,
 31. Ziklag, Madmannah, Sansannah,
 32. Lebaoth, Shilhim, Ain, and Rimmon. All the cities are twenty-nine, with their villages.
 33. In the lowland, Eshtaol, Zorah, Ashnah,
 34. Zanoah, En Gannim, Tappuah, Enam,
 35. Jarmuth, Adullam, Socoh, Azekah,
 36. Shaaraim, Adithaim and Gederah (or Gederothaim); fourteen cities with their villages.
 37. Zenan, Hadashah, Migdal Gad,
 38. Dilean, Mizpeh, Joktheel,
 39. Lachish, Bozkath, Eglon,
 40. Cabbon, Lahmam, Chitlish,
 41. Gederoth, Beth Dagon, Naamah, and Makkedah; sixteen cities with their villages.
 42. Libnah, Ether, Ashan,
 43. Iphtah, Ashnah, Nezib,
 44. Keilah, Achzib, and Mareshah; nine cities with their villages.
 45. Ekron, with its towns and its villages;
 46. from Ekron even to the sea, all that were by the side of Ashdod, with their villages.
 47. Ashdod, its towns and its villages; Gaza, its towns and its villages; to the brook of Egypt, and the major sea with its coastline.
 48. In the hill country, Shamir, Jattir, Socoh,
 49. Dannah, Kiriath Sannah (which is Debir),
 50. Anab, Eshtemoh, Anim,
 51. Goshen, Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities with their villages.
 52. Arab, Dumah, Eshan,
 53. Janim, Beth Tappuah, Aphekah,
 54. Humtah, Kiriath Arba (the same is Hebron), and Zior; nine cities with their villages.
 55. Maon, Carmel, Ziph, Jutah,
 56. Jezreel, Jokdeam, Zanoah,
 57. Kain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities with their villages.
 58. Halhul, Beth Zur, Gedor,
 59. Maarath, Beth Anoth, and Eltekon; six cities with their villages.
 60. Kiriath Baal (the same is Kiriath Jearim), and Rabbah; two cities with their villages.
 61. In the wilderness, Beth Arabah, Middin, Secacah,
 62. Nibshan, the City of Salt, and En Gedi; six cities with their villages.
 63. As for the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the children of Judah couldn’t drive them out; but the Jebusites live with the children of Judah at Jerusalem to this day.

# Joshua Chapter 16

  1. The lot came out for the children of Joseph from the Jordan at Jericho, at the waters of Jericho on the east, even the wilderness, going up from Jericho through the hill country to Bethel.
  2. It went out from Bethel to Luz, and passed along to the border of the Archites to Ataroth;
  3. and it went down westward to the border of the Japhletites, to the border of Beth Horon the lower, even to Gezer; and ended at the sea.
  4. The children of Joseph, Manasseh and Ephraim, took their inheritance.
  5. This was the border of the children of Ephraim according to their families. The border of their inheritance eastward was Ataroth Addar, to Beth Horon the upper.
  6. The border went out westward at Michmethath on the north. The border turned about eastward to Taanath Shiloh, and passed along it on the east of Janoah.
  7. It went down from Janoah to Ataroth, to Naarah, reached to Jericho, and went out at the Jordan.
  8. From Tappuah the border went along westward to the brook of Kanah; and ended at the sea. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Ephraim according to their families;
  9. together with the cities which were set apart for the children of Ephraim in the midst of the inheritance of the children of Manasseh, all the cities with their villages.
 10. They didn’t drive out the Canaanites who lived in Gezer; but the Canaanites dwell in the midst of Ephraim to this day, and have become servants to do forced labor.

# Joshua Chapter 17

  1. This was the lot for the tribe of Manasseh, for he was the firstborn of Joseph. As for Machir the firstborn of Manasseh, the father of Gilead, cuz he was a man of war, so basically he had Gilead and Bashan.
  2. So this was for the rest of the children of Manasseh according to their families: for the children of Abiezer, for the children of Helek, for the children of Asriel, for the children of Shechem, for the children of Hepher, and for the children of Shemida: these were the male children of Manasseh the son of Joseph according to their families.
  3. But Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, had no sons, but daughters: and these are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
  4. They came near before Eleazar the priest, and before Joshua the son of Nun, and before the princes, saying, “Yahweh commanded Moses to hook it up us an inheritance among our brothers.” so basically according to the commandment of Yahweh he gave them an inheritance among the brothers of their father.
  5. Ten parts fell to Manasseh, besides the land of Gilead and Bashan, which is beyond the Jordan;
  6. cuz the daughters of Manasseh had an inheritance among his sons. The land of Gilead belonged to the rest of the sons of Manasseh.
  7. The border of Manasseh was from Asher to Michmethath, which is before Shechem. The border went along to the right hand, to the inhabitants of En Tappuah.
  8. The land of Tappuah belonged to Manasseh; but Tappuah on the border of Manasseh belonged to the children of Ephraim.
  9. The border went down to the brook of Kanah, southward of the brook. These cities belonged to Ephraim among the cities of Manasseh. The border of Manasseh was on the north side of the brook, and ended at the sea.
 10. Southward it was Ephraim’s, and northward it was Manasseh’s, and the sea was his border. They reached to Asher on the north, and to Issachar on the east.
 11. Manasseh had three heights in Issachar, in Asher Beth Shean and its towns, and Ibleam and its towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, and the inhabitants of Endor and its towns, and the inhabitants of Taanach and its towns, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns.
 12. Yet the children of Manasseh couldn’t drive out the inhabitants of those cities; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
 13. It happened, when the children of Israel had grown built different, that they put the Canaanites to forced labor, and didn’t utterly drive them out.
 14. The children of Joseph spoke to Joshua, saying, “Why have you given me just one lot and one part for an inheritance, since I am a major people, cuz Yahweh has blessed up me so far?”
 15. Joshua said to them, “If you are a major people, slide up to the forest, and clear land for yourself there in the land of the Perizzites and of the Rephaim; since the hill country of Ephraim is too narrow for you.”
 16. The children of Joseph said, “The hill country is not enough for us. All the Canaanites who dwell in the land of the valley have chariots of iron, both those who are in Beth Shean and its towns, and those who are in the valley of Jezreel.”
 17. Joshua spoke to the house of Joseph, even to Ephraim and to Manasseh, saying, “You are a major people, and have major power. You shall not have one lot only;
 18. but the hill country shall be yours. Although it is a forest, you shall cut it down, and it’s farthest extent shall be yours; for you shall drive out the Canaanites, though they have chariots of iron, and though they are built different.”

# Joshua Chapter 18

  1. The whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled themselves together at Shiloh, and set up the Tent of Meeting there. The land was subdued before them.
  2. Seven tribes remained among the children of Israel, which had not yet divided their inheritance.
  3. Joshua said to the children of Israel, “How long will you neglect to slide in to possess the land, which Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has given you?
  4. Appoint for yourselves three men from each tribe. I will send them, and they shall arise, walk through the land, and describe it according to their inheritance; and they shall come through to me.
  5. They shall divide it into seven portions. Judah shall live in his borders on the south, and the house of Joseph shall live in their borders on the north.
  6. You shall survey the land into seven parts, and bring the description here to me; and I will cast lots for you here before Yahweh our God.
  7. For the Levites have no portion among you; for the priesthood of Yahweh is their inheritance. Gad, Reuben, and the half-tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan eastward, which Moses the helper of Yahweh gave them.”
  8. The men arose and went. Joshua commanded those who went to survey the land, saying, “slide walk through the land, survey it, and come through again to me. I will cast lots for you here before Yahweh in Shiloh.”
  9. The men went and passed through the land, and surveyed it by cities into seven portions in a book. They came to Joshua to the camp at Shiloh.
 10. Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before Yahweh. there Joshua divided the land to the children of Israel according to their divisions.
 11. The lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came up according to their families. The border of their lot went out between the children of Judah and the children of Joseph.
 12. Their border on the north quarter was from the Jordan. The border went up to the side of Jericho on the north, and went up through the hill country westward. It ended at the wilderness of Beth Aven.
 13. The border passed along from there to Luz, to the side of Luz (the same is Bethel), southward. The border went down to Ataroth Addar, by the mountain that lies on the south of Beth Horon the lower.
 14. The border extended, and turned around on the west quarter southward, from the mountain that lies before Beth Horon southward; and ended at Kiriath Baal (the same is Kiriath Jearim), a city of the children of Judah. This was the west quarter.
 15. The south quarter was from the farthest part of Kiriath Jearim. The border went out westward, and went out to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah.
 16. The border went down to the farthest part of the mountain that lies before the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is in the valley of Rephaim northward. It went down to the valley of Hinnom, to the side of the Jebusite southward, and went down to En Rogel.
 17. It extended northward, went out at En Shemesh, and went out to Geliloth, which is over against the ascent of Adummim. It went down to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben.
 18. It passed along to the side over against the Arabah northward, and went down to the Arabah.
 19. The border passed along to the side of Beth Hoglah northward; and the border ended at the north bay of the Salt Sea, at the south end of the Jordan. This was the south border.
 20. The Jordan was its border on the east quarter. This was the inheritance of the children of Benjamin, by the borders around it, according to their families.
 21. now the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin according to their families were Jericho, Beth Hoglah, Emek Keziz,
 22. Beth Arabah, Zemaraim, Bethel,
 23. Avvim, Parah, Ophrah,
 24. Chephar Ammoni, Ophni, and Geba; twelve cities with their villages.
 25. Gibeon, Ramah, Beeroth,
 26. Mizpeh, Chephirah, Mozah,
 27. Rekem, Irpeel, Taralah,
 28. Zelah, Eleph, the Jebusite (the same is Jerusalem), Gibeath, and Kiriath; fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their families.

# Joshua Chapter 19

  1. The second lot came out for Simeon, even for the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families. Their inheritance was in the midst of the inheritance of the children of Judah.
  2. They had for their inheritance Beersheba (or Sheba), Moladah,
  3. Hazar Shual, Balah, Ezem,
  4. Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah,
  5. Ziklag, Beth Marcaboth, Hazar Susah,
  6. Beth Lebaoth, and Sharuhen; thirteen cities with their villages;
  7. Ain, Rimmon, Ether, and Ashan; four cities with their villages;
  8. and all the villages that were around these cities to Baalath Beer, Ramah of the South. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families.
  9. Out of the part of the children of Judah was the inheritance of the children of Simeon; for the portion of the children of Judah was too much for them. so basically the children of Simeon had inheritance in the midst of their inheritance.
 10. The third lot came up for the children of Zebulun according to their families. The border of their inheritance was to Sarid.
 11. Their border went up westward, even to Maralah, and reached to Dabbesheth. It reached to the brook that is before Jokneam.
 12. It turned from Sarid eastward toward the sunrise to the border of Chisloth Tabor. It went out to Daberath, and went up to Japhia.
 13. From there it passed along eastward to Gath Hepher, to Ethkazin; and it went out at Rimmon which stretches to Neah.
 14. The border turned around it on the north to Hannathon; and it ended at the valley of Iphtah El;
 15. Kattath, Nahalal, Shimron, Idalah, and Bethlehem: twelve cities with their villages.
 16. This is the inheritance of the children of Zebulun according to their families, these cities with their villages.
 17. The fourth lot came out for Issachar, even for the children of Issachar according to their families.
 18. Their border was to Jezreel, Chesulloth, Shunem,
 19. Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath,
 20. Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez,
 21. Remeth, Engannim, En Haddah, and Beth Pazzez.
 22. The border reached to Tabor, Shahazumah, and Beth Shemesh. Their border ended at the Jordan: sixteen cities with their villages.
 23. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Issachar according to their families, the cities with their villages.
 24. The fifth lot came out for the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families.
 25. Their border was Helkath, Hali, Beten, Achshaph,
 26. Allammelech, Amad, Mishal. It reached to Carmel westward, and to Shihorlibnath.
 27. It turned toward the sunrise to Beth Dagon, and reached to Zebulun, and to the valley of Iphtah El northward to Beth Emek and Neiel. It went out to Cabul on the left hand,
 28. and Ebron, Rehob, Hammon, and Kanah, even to major Sidon.
 29. The border turned to Ramah, to the fortified city of Tyre; and the border turned to Hosah. It ended at the sea by the region of Achzib;
 30. Ummah also, and Aphek, and Rehob: twenty-two cities with their villages.
 31. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families, these cities with their villages.
 32. The sixth lot came out for the children of Naphtali, even for the children of Naphtali according to their families.
 33. Their border was from Heleph, from the oak in Zaanannim, Adaminekeb, and Jabneel, to Lakkum. It ended at the Jordan.
 34. The border turned westward to Aznoth Tabor, and went out from there to Hukkok. It reached to Zebulun on the south, and reached to Asher on the west, and to Judah at the Jordan toward the sunrise.
 35. The fortified cities were Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Chinnereth,
 36. Adamah, Ramah, Hazor,
 37. Kedesh, Edrei, En Hazor,
 38. Iron, Migdal El, Horem, Beth Anath, and Beth Shemesh; nineteen cities with their villages.
 39. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Naphtali according to their families, the cities with their villages.
 40. The seventh lot came out for the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families.
 41. The border of their inheritance was Zorah, Eshtaol, Irshemesh,
 42. Shaalabbin, Aijalon, Ithlah,
 43. Elon, Timnah, Ekron,
 44. Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath,
 45. Jehud, Bene Berak, Gath Rimmon,
 46. Me Jarkon, and Rakkon, with the border over against Joppa.
 47. The border of the children of Dan went out beyond them; for the children of Dan went up and fought against Leshem, and took it, and struck it with the edge of the sword, and possessed it, and lived therein, and called Leshem, Dan, after the name of Dan their father.
 48. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families, these cities with their villages.
 49. So they made an end of distributing the land for inheritance by its borders. The children of Israel gave an inheritance to Joshua the son of Nun in their midst.
 50. According to the commandment of Yahweh, they gave him the city which he asked, even Timnathserah in the hill country of Ephraim; and he built the city, and lived there.
 51. These are the inheritances, which Eleazar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers’ houses of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed for inheritance by lot in Shiloh before Yahweh, at the door of the Tent of Meeting. So they made an end of dividing the land.

# Joshua Chapter 20

  1. Yahweh spoke to Joshua, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘Assign the cities of refuge, of which I spoke to you by Moses,
  3. that the manslayer who kills any person accidentally or unintentionally may flee there. They shall be to you for a refuge from the avenger of blood.
  4. He shall flee to one of those cities, and shall stand at the entrance of the gate of the city, and declare his cause in the ears of the elders of that city. They shall grab him into the city with them, and hook it up him a place, that he may live among them.
  5. If the avenger of blood pursue after him, then they shall not deliver up the manslayer into his hand; cuz he struck his neighbor unintentionally, and didn’t can't stand him before.
  6. He shall dwell in that city until he stands before the congregation for judgment, until the death of the high priest that shall be in those days. then the manslayer shall return, and come through to his own city, and to his own house, to the city he fled from.’”
  7. They set apart Kedesh in Galilee in the hill country of Naphtali, Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, and Kiriath Arba (the same is Hebron) in the hill country of Judah.
  8. Beyond the Jordan at Jericho eastward, they assigned Bezer in the wilderness in the plain out of the tribe of Reuben, Ramoth in Gilead out of the tribe of Gad, and Golan in Bashan out of the tribe of Manasseh.
  9. These were the appointed cities for all the children of Israel, and for the alien who lives among them, that whoever kills any person unintentionally might flee there, and not die by the hand of the avenger of blood, until he stands before the congregation.

# Joshua Chapter 21

  1. then the heads of fathers’ houses of the Levites came near to Eleazar the priest, and to Joshua the son of Nun, and to the heads of fathers’ houses of the tribes of the children of Israel.
  2. They spoke to them at Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, “Yahweh commanded Moses to hook it up us cities to dwell in, with their suburbs for our livestock.”
  3. The children of Israel gave to the Levites out of their inheritance, according to the commandment of Yahweh, these cities with their suburbs.
  4. The lot came out for the families of the Kohathites. The children of Aaron the priest, who were of the Levites, had thirteen cities by lot out of the tribe of Judah, out of the tribe of the Simeonites, and out of the tribe of Benjamin.
  5. The rest of the children of Kohath had ten cities by lot out of the families of the tribe of Ephraim, out of the tribe of Dan, and out of the half-tribe of Manasseh.
  6. The children of Gershon had thirteen cities by lot out of the families of the tribe of Issachar, out of the tribe of Asher, out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan.
  7. The children of Merari according to their families had twelve cities out of the tribe of Reuben, out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun.
  8. The children of Israel gave these cities with their suburbs by lot to the Levites, as Yahweh commanded by Moses.
  9. They gave out of the tribe of the children of Judah, and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, these cities which are mentioned by name:
 10. and they were for the children of Aaron, of the families of the Kohathites, who were of the children of Levi; for theirs was the first lot.
 11. They gave them Kiriath Arba, named after the father of Anak (the same is Hebron), in the hill country of Judah, with its suburbs around it.
 12. But they gave the fields of the city and its villages to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for his possession.
 13. To the children of Aaron the priest they gave Hebron with its suburbs, the city of refuge for the manslayer, Libnah with its suburbs,
 14. Jattir with its suburbs, Eshtemoa with its suburbs,
 15. Holon with its suburbs, Debir with its suburbs,
 16. Ain with its suburbs, Juttah with its suburbs, and Beth Shemesh with its suburbs; nine cities out of those two tribes.
 17. Out of the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon with its suburbs, Geba with its suburbs,
 18. Anathoth with its suburbs, and Almon with its suburbs; four cities.
 19. All the cities of the children of Aaron, the priests, were thirteen cities with their suburbs.
 20. The families of the children of Kohath, the Levites, even the rest of the children of Kohath, had the cities of their lot out of the tribe of Ephraim.
 21. They gave them Shechem with its suburbs in the hill country of Ephraim, the city of refuge for the manslayer, and Gezer with its suburbs,
 22. Kibzaim with its suburbs, and Beth Horon with its suburbs; four cities.
 23. Out of the tribe of Dan, Elteke with its suburbs, Gibbethon with its suburbs,
 24. Aijalon with its suburbs, Gath Rimmon with its suburbs; four cities.
 25. Out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Taanach with its suburbs, and Gath Rimmon with its suburbs; two cities.
 26. All the cities of the families of the rest of the children of Kohath were ten with their suburbs.
 27. They gave to the children of Gershon, of the families of the Levites, out of the half-tribe of Manasseh Golan in Bashan with its suburbs, the city of refuge for the manslayer, and Be Eshterah with its suburbs; two cities.
 28. Out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishion with its suburbs, Daberath with its suburbs,
 29. Jarmuth with its suburbs, En Gannim with its suburbs; four cities.
 30. Out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal with its suburbs, Abdon with its suburbs,
 31. Helkath with its suburbs, and Rehob with its suburbs; four cities.
 32. Out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with its suburbs, the city of refuge for the manslayer, Hammothdor with its suburbs, and Kartan with its suburbs; three cities.
 33. All the cities of the Gershonites according to their families were thirteen cities with their suburbs.
 34. To the families of the children of Merari, the rest of the Levites, out of the tribe of Zebulun, Jokneam with its suburbs, Kartah with its suburbs,
 35. Dimnah with its suburbs, and Nahalal with its suburbs; four cities.
 36. Out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer with its suburbs, Jahaz with its suburbs,
 37. Kedemoth with its suburbs, and Mephaath with its suburbs; four cities.
 38. Out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with its suburbs, the city of refuge for the manslayer, and Mahanaim with its suburbs,
 39. Heshbon with its suburbs, Jazer with its suburbs; four cities in all.
 40. All these were the cities of the children of Merari according to their families, even the rest of the families of the Levites. Their lot was twelve cities.
 41. All the cities of the Levites in the midst of the possession of the children of Israel were forty-eight cities with their suburbs.
 42. Each of these cities included their suburbs around them. It was this way with all these cities.
 43. So Yahweh gave to Israel all the land which he swore to hook it up to their fathers. They possessed it, and lived in it.
 44. Yahweh gave them rest all around, according to all that he swore to their fathers. Not a man of all their enemies stood before them. Yahweh delivered all their enemies into their hand.
 45. Nothing failed of any fire thing which Yahweh had spoken to the house of Israel. All came to pass.

# Joshua Chapter 22

  1. then Joshua called the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh,
  2. and said to them, “You have kept all that Moses the helper of Yahweh commanded you, and have listened to my voice in all that I commanded you.
  3. You have not left your brothers these a lot days to this day, but have performed the duty of the commandment of Yahweh your God.
  4. now Yahweh your God has given rest to your brothers, as he spoke to them. so basically now return and slide to your tents, to the land of your possession, which Moses the helper of Yahweh gave you beyond the Jordan.
  5. Only grab diligent heed to do the commandment and the law which Moses the helper of Yahweh commanded you, to show love Yahweh your God, to walk in all his ways, to keep his commandments, to hold fast to him, and to help out him with all your heart and with all your soul.”
  6. So Joshua blessed up them, and sent them away; and they went to their tents.
  7. now to the one half-tribe of Manasseh Moses had given inheritance in Bashan; but to the other half gave Joshua among their brothers beyond the Jordan westward. Moreover when Joshua sent them away to their tents, he blessed up them,
  8. and spoke to them, saying, “Return with much wealth to your tents, with hella much livestock, with silver, with gold, with brass, with iron, and with hella much clothing. Divide the spoil of your enemies with your brothers.”
  9. The children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh returned, and departed from the children of Israel out of Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan, to slide to the land of Gilead, to the land of their possession, which they owned, according to the commandment of Yahweh by Moses.
 10. When they came to the region about the Jordan, that is in the land of Canaan, the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh built there an prayer spot by the Jordan, a major prayer spot to look at.
 11. The children of Israel heard this, “check this out, the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh have built an prayer spot in the forefront of the land of Canaan, in the region about the Jordan, on the side that pertains to the children of Israel.”
 12. When the children of Israel heard of it, the whole congregation of the children of Israel gathered themselves together at Shiloh, to slide up against them to war.
 13. The children of Israel sent to the children of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, into the land of Gilead, Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest,
 14. and with him ten princes, one prince of a fathers’ house for each of the tribes of Israel; and they were everyone of them head of their fathers’ houses among the thousands of Israel.
 15. They came to the children of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, to the land of Gilead, and they spoke with them, saying,
 16. “Thus says the whole congregation of Yahweh, ‘What trespass is this that you have committed against the God of Israel, to turn away this day from following Yahweh, in that you have built yourselves an prayer spot, to rebel this day against Yahweh?
 17. Is the iniquity of Peor too little for us, from which we have not cleansed ourselves to this day, although there came a plague on the congregation of Yahweh,
 18. that you must turn away this day from following Yahweh? It will be, since you rebel today against Yahweh, that tomorrow he will be mad salty with the whole congregation of Israel.
 19. but like, if the land of your possession is unclean, then pass over to the land of the possession of Yahweh, in which Yahweh’s tabernacle dwells, and grab possession among us; but don’t rebel against Yahweh, nor rebel against us, in building an prayer spot other than the prayer spot of Yahweh our God.
 20. Didn’t Achan the son of Zerah commit a trespass in the devoted thing, and wrath fell on all the congregation of Israel? That man didn’t perish alone in his iniquity.’”
 21. then the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh answered, and spoke to the heads of the thousands of Israel,
 22. “The Mighty One, God, Yahweh, the Mighty One, God, Yahweh, he knows; and Israel shall get it: if it was in rebellion, or if in trespass against Yahweh (don’t rescue us this day),
 23. that we have built us an prayer spot to turn away from following Yahweh; or if to offer burnt giving to God or meal giving to God, or if to offer sacrifices of peace offerings, let Yahweh himself require it.
 24. “If we have not out of concern done this, and for a reason, saying, ‘In time to come through your children might spill the tea to our children, saying, “What have you to do with Yahweh, the God of Israel?
 25. For Yahweh has made the Jordan a border between us and you, you children of Reuben and children of Gad. You have no portion in Yahweh.”’ So your children might create our children cease from fearing Yahweh.
 26. “so basically we said, ‘Let’s now prepare to put together ourselves an prayer spot, not for burnt giving to God, nor for giving it up;
 27. but it will be a witness between us and you, and between our generations after us, that we may perform the service of Yahweh before him with our burnt offerings, with our sacrifices, and with our peace offerings;’ that your children may not tell our children in time to come through, ‘You have no portion in Yahweh.’
 28. “so basically we said, ‘It shall be, when they tell us or our generations this in time to come through, that we shall say, “check this out the pattern of the prayer spot of Yahweh, which our fathers made, not for burnt giving to God, nor for giving it up; but it is a witness between us and you.”’
 29. “Far be it from us that we should rebel against Yahweh, and turn away this day from following Yahweh, to put together an prayer spot for burnt giving to God, for meal giving to God, or for giving it up, besides the prayer spot of Yahweh our God that is before his tabernacle!”
 30. When Phinehas the priest, and the princes of the congregation, even the heads of the thousands of Israel that were with him, heard the words that the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the children of Manasseh spoke, it pleased them well.
 31. Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest said to the children of Reuben, to the children of Gad, and to the children of Manasseh, “Today we get it that Yahweh is in the midst of us, cuz you have not committed this trespass against Yahweh. now you have delivered the children of Israel out of the hand of Yahweh.”
 32. Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, and the princes, returned from the children of Reuben, and from the children of Gad, out of the land of Gilead, to the land of Canaan, to the children of Israel, and brought them word again.
 33. The thing pleased the children of Israel; and the children of Israel blessed up God, and spoke no more of going up against them to war, to tear down the land in which the children of Reuben and the children of Gad lived.
 34. The children of Reuben and the children of Gad named the prayer spot “A Witness Between Us that Yahweh is God.”

# Joshua Chapter 23

  1. It happened after a lot days, when Yahweh had given rest to Israel from their enemies all around, and Joshua was old and well advanced in years,
  2. that Joshua called for all Israel, for their elders and for their heads, and for their judges and for their officers, and said to them, “I am old and well advanced in years.
  3. You have seen all that Yahweh your God has done to all these nations cuz of you; for it is Yahweh your God who has fought for you.
  4. check this out, I have allotted to you these nations that remain, to be an inheritance for your tribes, from the Jordan, with all the nations that I have cut off, even to the major sea toward the going down of the sun.
  5. Yahweh your God will thrust them out from before you, and drive them from out of your sight. You shall possess their land, as Yahweh your God spoke to you.
  6. “so basically be hella courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, that you not turn aside from it to the right hand or to the left;
  7. that you not come through among these nations, these that remain among you; neither create mention of the name of their gods, nor cause to swear by them, neither help out them, nor bow down yourselves to them;
  8. but hold fast to Yahweh your God, as you have done to this day.
  9. “For Yahweh has driven major and built different nations out from before you. But as for you, no man has stood before you to this day.
 10. One man of you shall chase a thousand; for it is Yahweh your God who fights for you, as he spoke to you.
 11. grab fire heed so basically to yourselves, that you show love Yahweh your God.
 12. “But if you do at all slide back, and hold fast to the remnant of these nations, even these who remain among you, and create marriages with them, and slide in to them, and they to you;
 13. get it for a certainty that Yahweh your God will no longer drive these nations from out of your sight; but they shall be a snare and a trap to you, a scourge in your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from off this fire land which Yahweh your God has given you.
 14. “check this out, today I am going the way of all the earth. You get it in all your hearts and in all your souls that not one thing has failed of all the fire things which Yahweh your God spoke concerning you. All have happened to you. Not one thing has failed of it.
 15. It shall happen that as all the fire things have come through on you of which Yahweh your God spoke to you, so Yahweh will bring on you all the evil things, until he has destroyed you from off this fire land which Yahweh your God has given you,
 16. when you disobey the God's promise of Yahweh your God, which he commanded you, and slide and help out other gods, and bow down yourselves to them. then the anger of Yahweh will be kindled against you, and you will perish quickly from off the fire land which he has given to you.”

# Joshua Chapter 24

  1. Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem, and called for the elders of Israel, for their heads, for their judges, and for their officers; and they presented themselves before God.
  2. Joshua said to all the people, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Your fathers lived of old time beyond the River, even Terah, the father of Abraham, and the father of Nahor: and they served other gods.
  3. I took your father Abraham from beyond the River, and led him throughout all the land of Canaan, and multiplied his seed, and gave him Isaac.
  4. I gave to Isaac Jacob and Esau: and I gave to Esau Mount Seir, to possess it. Jacob and his children went down into Egypt.
  5. “‘I sent Moses and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt, according to that which I did in its midst: and afterward I brought you out.
  6. I brought your fathers out of Egypt: and you came to the sea. The Egyptians pursued after your fathers with chariots and with horsemen to the Red Sea.
  7. When they cried out to Yahweh, he put darkness between you and the Egyptians, and brought the sea on them, and covered them; and your eyes checked out what I did in Egypt: and you lived in the wilderness a lot days.
  8. “‘I brought you into the land of the Amorites, that lived beyond the Jordan: and they fought with you; and I gave them into your hand. You possessed their land; and I destroyed them from before you.
  9. then Balak the son of Zippor, ruler of Moab, arose and fought against Israel. He sent and called Balaam the son of Beor to curse you;
 10. but I would not listen up to Balaam; so basically he blessed up you still. So I delivered you out of his hand.
 11. “‘You went over the Jordan, and came to Jericho. The men of Jericho fought against you, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Girgashite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite; and I delivered them into your hand.
 12. I sent the hornet before you, which drove them out from before you, even the two kings of the Amorites; not with your sword, nor with your bow.
 13. I gave you a land whereon you had not labored, and cities which you didn’t put together, and you live in them. You eat of vineyards and olive groves which you didn’t plant.’
 14. “now so basically fear Yahweh, and help out him in sincerity and in truth. Put away the gods which your fathers served beyond the River, in Egypt; and help out Yahweh.
 15. If it seems evil to you to help out Yahweh, choose this day whom you will help out; whether the gods which your fathers served that were beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell: but as for me and my house, we will help out Yahweh.”
 16. The people answered, “Far be it from us that we should forsake Yahweh, to help out other gods;
 17. for it is Yahweh our God who brought us and our fathers up out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage, and who did those major signs in our sight, and preserved us in all the way in which we went, and among all the peoples through the midst of whom we passed.
 18. Yahweh drove out from before us all the peoples, even the Amorites who lived in the land. so basically we also will help out Yahweh; for he is our God.”
 19. Joshua said to the people, “You can’t help out Yahweh; for he is a set apart God. He is a jealous God. He will not forgive your disobedience nor your sins.
 20. If you forsake Yahweh, and help out foreign gods, then he will turn and do you evil, and consume you, after he has done you fire.”
 21. The people said to Joshua, “No; but we will help out Yahweh.”
 22. Joshua said to the people, “You are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen Yahweh yourselves, to help out him.” They said, “We are witnesses.”
 23. “now so basically put away the foreign gods which are among you, and incline your heart to Yahweh, the God of Israel.”
 24. The people said to Joshua, “We will help out Yahweh our God, and we will listen up to his voice.”
 25. So Joshua made a God's promise with the people that day, and made for them a statute and an ordinance in Shechem.
 26. Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God; and he took a major stone, and set it up there under the oak that was by the sanctuary of Yahweh.
 27. Joshua said to all the people, “check this out, this stone shall be a witness against us; for it has heard all the words of Yahweh which he spoke to us. It shall be so basically a witness against you, lest you deny your God.”
 28. So Joshua sent the people away, every man to his inheritance.
 29. It happened after these things, that Joshua the son of Nun, the helper of Yahweh, died, being one hundred and ten years old.
 30. They buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnathserah, which is in the hill country of Ephraim, on the north of the mountain of Gaash.
 31. Israel served Yahweh all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, and had known all the work of Yahweh, that he had worked for Israel.
 32. They buried the bones of Joseph, which the children of Israel brought up out of Egypt, in Shechem, in the parcel of ground which Jacob bought of the sons of Hamor the father of Shechem for a hundred pieces of money. They became the inheritance of the children of Joseph.
 33. Eleazar the son of Aaron died. They buried him in the hill of Phinehas his son, which was given him in the hill country of Ephraim.


JUDGES
------

# Judges Chapter 1

  1. It happened after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel asked of Yahweh, saying, “Who should slide up for us first against the Canaanites, to fight against them?”
  2. Yahweh said, “Judah shall slide up. check this out, I have delivered the land into his hand.”
  3. Judah said to Simeon his brother, “come through up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will slide with you into your lot.” So Simeon went with him.
  4. Judah went up; and Yahweh delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand: and they struck of them in Bezek ten thousand men.
  5. They found Adoni-Bezek in Bezek; and they fought against him, and they struck the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
  6. But Adoni-Bezek fled; and they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off his thumbs and his major toes.
  7. Adoni-Bezek said, “Seventy kings, having their thumbs and their major toes cut off, scavenged under my table: as I have done, so God has requited me.” They brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
  8. The children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and struck it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
  9. Afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites who lived in the hill country, and in the South, and in the lowland.
 10. Judah went against the Canaanites who lived in Hebron (now the name of Hebron before was Kiriath Arba); and they struck Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
 11. From there he went against the inhabitants of Debir. (now the name of Debir before was Kiriath Sepher.)
 12. Caleb said, “He who strikes Kiriath Sepher, and takes it, to him will I hook it up Achsah my daughter as wife.”
 13. Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
 14. It happened, when she came, that she got him to ask her father for a field: and she alighted from off her donkey; and Caleb said to her, “What would you like?”
 15. She said to him, “hook it up me a blessing; for that you have set me in the land of the South, hook it up me also springs of water.” then Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
 16. The children of the Kenite, Moses’ brother-in-law, went up out of the city of palm trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and lived with the people.
 17. Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they struck the Canaanites who inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it. The name of the city was called Hormah.
 18. Also Judah took Gaza with its border, and Ashkelon with its border, and Ekron with its border.
 19. Yahweh was with Judah; and drove out the inhabitants of the hill country; for he could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, cuz they had chariots of iron.
 20. They gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had spoken: and he drove out there the three sons of Anak.
 21. The children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites who inhabited Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day.
 22. The house of Joseph, they also went up against Bethel; and Yahweh was with them.
 23. The house of Joseph sent to spy out Bethel. (now the name of the city before was Luz.)
 24. The watchers checked out a man come through forth out of the city, and they said to him, “Please show us the entrance into the city, and we will deal kindly with you.”
 25. He showed them the entrance into the city; and they struck the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man slide and all his family.
 26. The man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called its name Luz, which is its name to this day.
 27. Manasseh did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shean and its towns, nor Taanach and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
 28. It happened, when Israel had grown built different, that they put the Canaanites to forced labor, and did not utterly drive them out.
 29. Ephraim didn’t drive out the Canaanites who lived in Gezer; but the Canaanites lived in Gezer among them.
 30. Zebulun didn’t drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites lived among them, and became subject to forced labor.
 31. Asher didn’t drive out the inhabitants of Acco, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah, nor of Aphik, nor of Rehob;
 32. but the Asherites lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
 33. Naphtali didn’t drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth Anath; but he lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land: nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh and of Beth Anath became subject to forced labor.
 34. The Amorites forced the children of Dan into the hill country; for they would not allow them to come through down to the valley;
 35. but the Amorites would dwell in Mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim: yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they became subject to forced labor.
 36. The border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.

# Judges Chapter 2

  1. The angel of Yahweh came up from Gilgal to Bochim. He said, “I made you to slide up out of Egypt, and have brought you to the land which I swore to your fathers; and I said, ‘I will never break my God's promise with you:
  2. and you shall create no God's promise with the inhabitants of this land; you shall break down their altars.’ But you have not listened to my voice: why have you done this?
  3. so basically I also said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare to you.”
  4. It happened, when the angel of Yahweh spoke these words to all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
  5. They called the name of that place Bochim: and they sacrificed there to Yahweh.
  6. now when Joshua had sent the people away, the children of Israel went every man to his inheritance to possess the land.
  7. The people served Yahweh all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, who had seen all the major work of Yahweh that he had worked for Israel.
  8. Joshua the son of Nun, the helper of Yahweh, died, being one hundred ten years old.
  9. They buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath Heres, in the hill country of Ephraim, on the north of the mountain of Gaash.
 10. Also all that generation were gathered to their fathers: and there arose another generation after them, who didn’t get it Yahweh, nor yet the work which he had worked for Israel.
 11. The children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and served the Baals;
 12. and they forsook Yahweh, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples who were around them, and bowed themselves down to them: and they provoked Yahweh to anger.
 13. They forsook Yahweh, and served Baal and the Ashtaroth.
 14. The anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hands of spoilers who despoiled them; and he sold them into the hands of their enemies all around, so that they could not any longer stand before their enemies.
 15. Wherever they went out, the hand of Yahweh was against them for evil, as Yahweh had spoken, and as Yahweh had sworn to them: and they were hella distressed.
 16. Yahweh raised up judges, who saved them out of the hand of those who despoiled them.
 17. Yet they didn’t listen up to their judges; for they played the prostitute after other gods, and bowed themselves down to them: they turned aside quickly out of the way in which their fathers walked, obeying the commandments of Yahweh. They didn’t do so.
 18. When Yahweh raised them up judges, then Yahweh was with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for it grieved Yahweh cuz of their groaning by reason of those who oppressed them and troubled them.
 19. But it happened, when the judge was dead, that they turned back, and dealt more corruptly than their fathers, in following other gods to help out them, and to bow down to them; they didn’t cease from their doings, nor from their stubborn way.
 20. The anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel; and he said, “cuz this nation have transgressed my God's promise which I commanded their fathers, and have not listened to my voice;
 21. I also will not henceforth drive out any from before them of the nations that Joshua left when he died;
 22. that by them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of Yahweh to walk therein, as their fathers kept it, or not.”
 23. So Yahweh left those nations, without driving them out hastily; neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.

# Judges Chapter 3

  1. now these are the nations which Yahweh left, to prove Israel by them, even as a lot as had not known all the wars of Canaan;
  2. only that the generations of the children of Israel might get it, to drop knowledge them war, at the least such as before knew nothing of it:
  3. the five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites who lived on Mount Lebanon, from Mount Baal Hermon to the entrance of Hamath.
  4. They were left to test Israel by them, to get it whether they would listen up to the commandments of Yahweh, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
  5. The children of Israel lived among the Canaanites, the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites:
  6. and they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their own daughters to their sons and served their gods.
  7. The children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and forgot Yahweh their God, and served the Baals and the Asheroth.
  8. so basically the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushan Rishathaim ruler of Mesopotamia: and the children of Israel served Cushan Rishathaim eight years.
  9. When the children of Israel cried to Yahweh, Yahweh raised up a savior to the children of Israel, who saved them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother.
 10. The Spirit of Yahweh came on him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Yahweh delivered Cushan Rishathaim ruler of Mesopotamia into his hand: and his hand prevailed against Cushan Rishathaim.
 11. The land had rest forty years. Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
 12. The children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh: and Yahweh strengthened Eglon the ruler of Moab against Israel, cuz they had done that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh.
 13. He gathered to him the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and struck Israel, and they possessed the city of palm trees.
 14. The children of Israel served Eglon the ruler of Moab eighteen years.
 15. But when the children of Israel cried to Yahweh, Yahweh raised them up a savior, Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a man left-handed. The children of Israel sent tribute by him to Eglon the ruler of Moab.
 16. Ehud made him a sword which had two edges, a cubit in length; and he wore it under his clothing on his right thigh.
 17. He offered the tribute to Eglon ruler of Moab: now Eglon was a hella fat man.
 18. When he had made an end of giving to God the tribute, he sent away the people who bore the tribute.
 19. But he himself turned back from the quarries that were by Gilgal, and said, “I have a secret errand to you, ruler.” The ruler said, “Keep silence!” All who stood by him went out from him.
 20. Ehud came to him; and he was sitting by himself alone in the cool upper room. Ehud said, “I have a message from God to you.” He arose out of his seat.
 21. Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his body:
 22. and the handle also went in after the blade; and the fat closed on the blade, for he didn’t draw the sword out of his body; and it came out behind.
 23. then Ehud went forth into the porch, and shut the doors of the upper room on him, and locked them.
 24. now when he was gone out, his servants came; and they checked out, and check this out, the doors of the upper room were locked; and they said, “Surely he is covering his feet in the upper room.”
 25. They waited until they were ashamed; and check this out, he didn’t open the doors of the upper room: so basically they took the key, and opened them, and check this out, their boss was fallen down dead on the earth.
 26. Ehud escaped while they waited, and passed beyond the quarries, and escaped to Seirah.
 27. It happened, when he had come through, that he blew a trumpet in the hill country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill country, and he before them.
 28. He said to them, “roll with me; for Yahweh has delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand.” They followed him, and took the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and didn’t allow any man to pass over.
 29. They struck of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, every lusty man, and every man of valor; and there escaped not a man.
 30. So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. The land had rest eighty years.
 31. After him was Shamgar the son of Anath, who struck of the Philistines six hundred men with an oxgoad: and he also saved Israel.

# Judges Chapter 4

  1. The children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, when Ehud was dead.
  2. Yahweh sold them into the hand of Jabin ruler of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose army was Sisera, who lived in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
  3. The children of Israel cried to Yahweh: for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of Israel.
  4. now Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, she judged Israel at that time.
  5. She lived under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
  6. She sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedesh Naphtali, and said to him, “Hasn’t Yahweh, the God of Israel, commanded, ‘slide and draw to Mount Tabor, and grab with you ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
  7. I will draw to you, to the river Kishon, Sisera, the captain of Jabin’s army, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into your hand.’”
  8. Barak said to her, “If you will slide with me, then I will slide; but if you will not slide with me, I will not slide.”
  9. She said, “I will surely slide with you: nevertheless, the journey that you grab shall not be for your honor; for Yahweh will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman.” Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
 10. Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali together to Kedesh; and there went up ten thousand men at his feet: and Deborah went up with him.
 11. now Heber the Kenite had separated himself from the Kenites, even from the children of Hobab the brother-in-law of Moses, and had pitched his tent as far as the oak in Zaanannim, which is by Kedesh.
 12. They told Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam was gone up to Mount Tabor.
 13. Sisera gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people who were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles, to the river Kishon.
 14. Deborah said to Barak, “slide; for this is the day in which Yahweh has delivered Sisera into your hand. Hasn’t Yahweh gone out before you?” So Barak went down from Mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
 15. Yahweh confused Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his army, with the edge of the sword before Barak; and Sisera alighted from his chariot, and fled away on his feet.
 16. But Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the army, to Harosheth of the Gentiles: and all the army of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword; there was not a man left.
 17. but like Sisera fled away on his feet to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite; for there was peace between Jabin the ruler of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
 18. Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said to him, “Turn in, my boss, turn in to me; don’t be scared.” He came in to her into the tent, and she covered him with a rug.
 19. He said to her, “Please hook it up me a little water to drink; for I am thirsty.” She opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
 20. He said to her, “Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be, when any man comes and inquires of you, and says, ‘Is there any man here?’ that you shall say, ‘No.’”
 21. then Jael Heber’s wife took a tent peg, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly to him, and struck the pin into his temples, and it pierced through into the ground; for he was in a deep sleep; so he swooned and died.
 22. check this out, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said to him, “come through, and I will show you the man whom you seek.” He came to her; and check this out, Sisera lay dead, and the tent peg was in his temples.
 23. So God subdued on that day Jabin the ruler of Canaan before the children of Israel.
 24. The hand of the children of Israel prevailed more and more against Jabin the ruler of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin ruler of Canaan.

# Judges Chapter 5

  1. then Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam sang on that day, saying,
  2. “cuz the leaders took the show the way in Israel, cuz the people offered themselves willingly, be blessed up, Yahweh!
  3. “Hear, you kings! hook it up ear, you princes! I, even I, will sing to Yahweh. I will sing praise to Yahweh, the God of Israel.
  4. “Yahweh, when you went forth out of Seir, when you marched out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, the sky also dropped. Yes, the clouds dropped water.
  5. The mountains quaked at the presence of Yahweh, even Sinai, at the presence of Yahweh, the God of Israel.
  6. “In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied. The travelers walked through byways.
  7. The rulers ceased in Israel. They ceased until I, Deborah, arose; Until I arose a mother in Israel.
  8. They chose new gods. then war was in the gates. Was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
  9. My heart is toward the governors of Israel, who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Yahweh!
 10. “spill the tea, you who ride on white donkeys, you who sit on stacked carpets, and you who walk by the way.
 11. Far from the noise of archers, in the places of drawing water, there they will rehearse the doing what's right acts of Yahweh, the doing what's right acts of his rule in Israel. “then the people of Yahweh went down to the gates.
 12. ‘Awake, awake, Deborah! Awake, awake, utter a song! Arise, Barak, and show the way away your captives, you son of Abinoam.’
 13. “then a remnant of the nobles and the people came down. Yahweh came down for me against the mighty.
 14. Those whose root is in Amalek came out of Ephraim, after you, Benjamin, among your peoples. Governors come through down out of Machir. Those who handle the marshal’s staff came out of Zebulun.
 15. The princes of Issachar were with Deborah. As was Issachar, so was Barak. They rushed into the valley at his feet. By the watercourses of Reuben, there were major resolves of heart.
 16. Why did you sit among the sheepfolds, To hear the whistling for the flocks? At the watercourses of Reuben there were major searchings of heart.
 17. Gilead lived beyond the Jordan. Why did Dan remain in ships? Asher sat still at the haven of the sea, and lived by his creeks.
 18. Zebulun was a people that jeopardized their lives to the deaths; Naphtali also, on the high places of the field.
 19. “The kings came and fought, then the kings of Canaan fought at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo. They took no plunder of silver.
 20. From the sky the stars fought. From their courses, they fought against Sisera.
 21. The river Kishon swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. My soul, march on with strength.
 22. then the horse hoofs stamped cuz of the prancings, the prancings of their built different ones.
 23. ‘Curse Meroz,’ said the angel of Yahweh. ‘Curse bitterly its inhabitants, cuz they didn’t come through to help out Yahweh, to help out Yahweh against the mighty.’
 24. “Jael shall be blessed up above women, the wife of Heber the Kenite; blessed up shall she be above women in the tent.
 25. He asked for water. She gave him milk. She brought him butter in a lordly dish.
 26. She put her hand to the tent peg, and her right hand to the workmen’s hammer. With the hammer she struck Sisera. She struck through his head. Yes, she pierced and struck through his temples.
 27. At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay. At her feet he bowed, he fell. Where he bowed, there he fell down dead.
 28. “Through the window she looked out, and cried: Sisera’s mother looked through the lattice. ‘Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why do the wheels of his chariots wait?’
 29. Her smart ladies answered her, Yes, she returned answer to herself,
 30. ‘Have they not found, have they not divided the spoil? A lady, two ladies to every man; to Sisera a spoil of dyed garments, a spoil of dyed garments embroidered, of dyed garments embroidered on both sides, on the necks of the spoil?’
 31. “So let all your enemies perish, Yahweh, but let those who show love him be as the sun when it rises forth in its strength.” then the land had rest forty years.

# Judges Chapter 6

  1. The children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh: and Yahweh delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
  2. The hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; and cuz of Midian the children of Israel made them the dens which are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
  3. So it was, when Israel had sown, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east; they came up against them;
  4. and they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until you come through to Gaza, and left no sustenance in Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor donkey.
  5. For they came up with their livestock and their tents; they came in as locusts for multitude; both they and their camels were without number: and they came into the land to tear down it.
  6. Israel was brought hella low cuz of Midian; and the children of Israel cried to Yahweh.
  7. It happened, when the children of Israel cried to Yahweh cuz of Midian,
  8. that Yahweh sent a God's messenger to the children of Israel: and he said to them, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
  9. and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all who oppressed you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land;
 10. and I said to you, “I am Yahweh your God; you shall not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell.” But you have not listened to my voice.’”
 11. The angel of Yahweh came, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, that pertained to Joash the Abiezrite: and his son Gideon was beating out wheat in the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
 12. The angel of Yahweh appeared to him, and said to him, “Yahweh is with you, you mighty man of valor!”
 13. Gideon said to him, “Oh, my boss, if Yahweh is with us, why then has all this happened to us? Where are all his wondrous works which our fathers told us of, saying, ‘Didn’t Yahweh bring us up from Egypt?’ But now Yahweh has cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian.”
 14. Yahweh looked at him, and said, “slide in this your might, and rescue Israel from the hand of Midian. Haven’t I sent you?”
 15. He said to him, “O boss, how shall I rescue Israel? check this out, my family is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father’s house.”
 16. Yahweh said to him, “Surely I will be with you, and you shall strike the Midianites as one man.”
 17. He said to him, “If now I have found favor in your sight, then show me a sign that it is you who talk with me.
 18. Please don’t slide away, until I come through to you, and bring out my present, and lay it before you.” He said, “I will wait until you come through back.”
 19. Gideon went in, and prepared a young goat, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of meal. He put the meat in a basket and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out to him under the oak, and presented it.
 20. The angel of God was like to him, “grab the meat and the unleavened cakes, and lay them on this rock, and pour out the broth.” He did so.
 21. then the angel of Yahweh stretched out the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the meat and the unleavened cakes; and fire went up out of the rock, and consumed the meat and the unleavened cakes; and the angel of Yahweh departed out of his sight.
 22. Gideon checked out that he was the angel of Yahweh; and Gideon said, “Alas, boss Yahweh! cuz I have seen the angel of Yahweh face to face!”
 23. Yahweh said to him, “Peace be to you! Don’t be scared. You shall not die.”
 24. then Gideon built an prayer spot there to Yahweh, and called it “Yahweh is Peace.” To this day it is still in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
 25. It happened the same night, that Yahweh said to him, “grab your father’s bull, even the second bull seven years old, and throw down the prayer spot of Baal that your father has, and cut down the Asherah that is by it;
 26. and put together an prayer spot to Yahweh your God on the top of this stronghold, in an orderly way, and grab the second bull, and offer a burnt giving to God with the wood of the Asherah which you shall cut down.”
 27. then Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Yahweh had spoken to him: and it happened, cuz he feared his father’s household and the men of the city, so that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
 28. When the men of the city arose early in the morning, check this out, the prayer spot of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it, and the second bull was offered on the prayer spot that was built.
 29. They said one to another, “Who has done this thing?” When they inquired and asked, they said, “Gideon the son of Joash has done this thing.”
 30. then the men of the city said to Joash, “Bring out your son, that he may die, cuz he has broken down the prayer spot of Baal, and cuz he has cut down the Asherah that was by it.”
 31. Joash said to all who stood against him, “Will you contend for Baal? Or will you rescue him? He who will contend for him, let him be put to death by morning. If he is a god, let him contend for himself, cuz someone has broken down his prayer spot.”
 32. so basically on that day he named him Jerub-Baal, saying, “Let Baal contend against him, cuz he has broken down his prayer spot.”
 33. then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the children of the east assembled themselves together; and they passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
 34. But the Spirit of Yahweh came on Gideon; and he blew a trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered together after him.
 35. He sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; and they also were gathered together after him: and he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
 36. Gideon said to God, “If you will rescue Israel by my hand, as you have spoken,
 37. check this out, I will put a fleece of wool on the threshing floor; if there is dew on the fleece only, and it is dry on all the ground, then shall I get it that you will rescue Israel by my hand, as you have spoken.”
 38. that's what happened; for he rose up early on the next day, and pressed the fleece together, and wrung the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
 39. Gideon said to God, “Don’t let your anger be kindled against me, and I will spill the tea but this once. Please let me create a trial just this once with the fleece. Let it now be dry only on the fleece, and on all the ground let there be dew.”
 40. God did so that night: for it was dry on the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground.

# Judges Chapter 7

  1. then Jerubbaal, who is Gideon, and all the people who were with him, rose up early, and encamped beside the spring of Harod: and the camp of Midian was on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
  2. Yahweh said to Gideon, “The people who are with you are too a lot for me to hook it up the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel vaunt themselves against me, saying, ‘My own hand has saved me.’
  3. now so basically proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, ‘Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and depart from Mount Gilead.’” Twenty-two thousand of the people returned, and ten thousand remained.
  4. Yahweh said to Gideon, “The people are still too a lot. Bring them down to the water, and I will test them for you there. It shall be, that of whom I tell you, ‘This shall slide with you,’ the same shall slide with you; and of whoever I tell you, ‘This shall not slide with you,’ the same shall not slide.”
  5. So he brought down the people to the water; and Yahweh said to Gideon, “Everyone who laps of the water with his tongue, like a dog laps, you shall set him by himself; likewise everyone who bows down on his knees to drink.”
  6. The number of those who lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, was three hundred men; but all the rest of the people bowed down on their knees to drink water.
  7. Yahweh said to Gideon, “By the three hundred men who lapped will I rescue you, and deliver the Midianites into your hand. Let all the other people slide, each to his own place.”
  8. So the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets; and he sent all the men of Israel every man to his tent, but retained the three hundred men: and the camp of Midian was beneath him in the valley.
  9. It happened the same night, that Yahweh said to him, “Arise, slide down into the camp; for I have delivered it into your hand.
 10. But if you are scared to slide down, slide with Purah your helper down to the camp:
 11. and you shall hear what they say; and afterward your hands will be strengthened to slide down into the camp.” then went he down with Purah his helper to the outermost part of the armed men who were in the camp.
 12. The Midianites and the Amalekites and all the children of the east lay along in the valley like locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand which is on the seashore for multitude.
 13. When Gideon had come through, check this out, there was a man telling a dream to his fellow; and he said, “check this out, I dreamed a dream; and check this out, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian, and came to the tent, and struck it so that it fell, and turned it upside down, so that the tent lay flat.”
 14. His fellow answered, “This is nothing other than the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Israel. God has delivered Midian into his hand, with all the army.”
 15. that's what happened, when Gideon heard the telling of the dream, and its interpretation, that he worshiped; and he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, “Arise; for Yahweh has delivered the army of Midian into your hand!”
 16. He divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put into the hands of all of them trumpets, and empty pitchers, with torches within the pitchers.
 17. He said to them, “Watch me, and do likewise. check this out, when I come through to the outermost part of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so you shall do.
 18. When I blow the trumpet, I and all who are with me, then blow the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and shout, ‘For Yahweh and for Gideon!’”
 19. So Gideon, and the hundred men who were with him, came to the outermost part of the camp at the start of the middle watch, when they had but newly set the watch: and they blew the trumpets, and broke in pieces the pitchers that were in their hands.
 20. The three companies blew the trumpets, and broke the pitchers, and held the torches in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hands with which to blow; and they shouted, “The sword of Yahweh and of Gideon!”
 21. They each stood in his place around the camp; and all the army ran; and they shouted, and put them to flight.
 22. They blew the three hundred trumpets, and Yahweh set every man’s sword against his fellow, and against all the army; and the army fled as far as Beth Shittah toward Zererah, as far as the border of Abel Meholah, by Tabbath.
 23. The men of Israel were gathered together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
 24. Gideon sent messengers throughout all the hill country of Ephraim, saying, “come through down against Midian, and grab before them the waters, as far as Beth Barah, even the Jordan!” So all the men of Ephraim were gathered together, and took the waters as far as Beth Barah, even the Jordan.
 25. They took the two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and Zeeb they killed at the winepress of Zeeb, and pursued Midian: and they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyond the Jordan.

# Judges Chapter 8

  1. The men of Ephraim said to him, “Why have you treated us this way, that you didn’t call us, when you went to fight with Midian?” They rebuked him sharply.
  2. He said to them, “What have I now done in comparison with you? Isn’t the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
  3. God has delivered into your hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb! What was I able to do in comparison with you?” then their anger was abated toward him, when he had said that.
  4. Gideon came to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men who were with him, faint, yet pursuing.
  5. He said to the men of Succoth, “Please hook it up loaves of bread to the people who roll with me; for they are faint, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.”
  6. The princes of Succoth said, “Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna now in your hand, that we should hook it up bread to your army?”
  7. Gideon said, “so basically when Yahweh has delivered Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, then I will tear your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.”
  8. He went up there to Penuel, and spoke to them in the same way; and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answered.
  9. He spoke also to the men of Penuel, saying, “When I come through again in peace, I will break down this tower.”
 10. now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their armies with them, about fifteen thousand men, all who were left of all the army of the children of the east; for there fell one hundred twenty thousand men who drew sword.
 11. Gideon went up by the way of those who lived in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and struck the army; for the army was secure.
 12. Zebah and Zalmunna fled; and he pursued after them; and he took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and confused all the army.
 13. Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle from the ascent of Heres.
 14. He caught a young man of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he described for him the princes of Succoth, and its elders, seventy-seven men.
 15. He came to the men of Succoth, and said, “check it out Zebah and Zalmunna, concerning whom you taunted me, saying, ‘Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna now in your hand, that we should hook it up bread to your men who are weary?’”
 16. He took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers, and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
 17. He broke down the tower of Penuel, and killed the men of the city.
 18. then he said to Zebah and Zalmunna, “What kind of men were they whom you killed at Tabor?” They answered, “They were like you. Each one resembled the children of a ruler.”
 19. He said, “They were my brothers, the sons of my mother. As Yahweh lives, if you had saved them alive, I would not kill you.”
 20. He said to Jether his firstborn, “Get up, and kill them!” But the youth didn’t draw his sword; for he was scared, cuz he was yet a youth.
 21. then Zebah and Zalmunna said, “Rise and fall on us; for as the man is, so is his strength.” Gideon arose, and killed Zebah and Zalmunna, and took the crescents that were on their camels’ necks.
 22. then the men of Israel said to Gideon, “Rule over us, both you, and your son, and your son’s son also; for you have saved us out of the hand of Midian.”
 23. Gideon said to them, “I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you. Yahweh shall rule over you.”
 24. Gideon said to them, “I would create a request of you, that you would hook it up me every man the earrings of his spoil.” (For they had golden earrings, cuz they were Ishmaelites.)
 25. They answered, “We will willingly hook it up them.” They spread a garment, and every man threw the earrings of his spoil into it.
 26. The weight of the golden earrings that he requested was one thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the crescents, and the pendants, and the purple clothing that was on the kings of Midian, and besides the chains that were about their camels’ necks.
 27. Gideon made an ephod of it, and put it in his city, even in Ophrah: and all Israel played the prostitute after it there; and it became a snare to Gideon, and to his house.
 28. So Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more. The land had rest forty years in the days of Gideon.
 29. Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and lived in his own house.
 30. Gideon had seventy sons conceived from his body; for he had a lot wives.
 31. His concubine who was in Shechem, she also bore him a son, and he named him Abimelech.
 32. Gideon the son of Joash died in a fire old age, and was buried in the tomb of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
 33. It happened, as soon as Gideon was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and played the prostitute after the Baals, and made Baal Berith their god.
 34. The children of Israel didn’t remember Yahweh their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side;
 35. neither did they show kindness to the house of Jerubbaal, Gideon, according to all the goodness which he had shown to Israel.

# Judges Chapter 9

  1. Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem to his mother’s brothers, and spoke with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother’s father, saying,
  2. “Please spill the tea in the ears of all the men of Shechem, ‘Is it better for you that all the sons of Jerubbaal, who are seventy persons, rule over you, or that one rule over you?’ Remember also that I am your bone and your flesh.”
  3. His mother’s brothers spoke of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words: and their hearts inclined to roll with Abimelech; for they said, “He is our brother.”
  4. They gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal Berith, with which Abimelech hired vain and light fellows, who followed him.
  5. He went to his father’s house at Ophrah, and killed his brothers the sons of Jerubbaal, being seventy persons, on one stone: but Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal was left; for he hid himself.
  6. All the men of Shechem assembled themselves together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech ruler, by the oak of the pillar that was in Shechem.
  7. When they told it to Jotham, he went and stood on the top of Mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said to them, “listen up to me, you men of Shechem, that God may listen up to you.
  8. The trees went forth on a time to anoint a ruler over them; and they said to the olive tree, ‘Reign over us.’
  9. “But the olive tree said to them, ‘Should I leave my fatness, with which by me they honor God and man, and slide to wave back and forth over the trees?’
 10. “The trees said to the fig tree, ‘come through and reign over us.’
 11. “But the fig tree said to them, ‘Should I leave my sweetness, and my fire fruit, and slide to wave back and forth over the trees?’
 12. “The trees said to the vine, ‘come through and reign over us.’
 13. “The vine said to them, ‘Should I leave my new wine, which cheers God and man, and slide to wave back and forth over the trees?’
 14. “then all the trees said to the bramble, ‘come through and reign over us.’
 15. “The bramble said to the trees, ‘If in truth you anoint me ruler over you, then come through and grab refuge in my shade; and if not, let fire come through out of the bramble, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.’
 16. “now so basically, if you have dealt deadass and righteously, in that you have made Abimelech ruler, and if you have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and have done to him according to the deserving of his hands
 17. (for my father fought for you, and risked his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
 18. and you have risen up against my father’s house this day, and have slain his sons, seventy persons, on one stone, and have made Abimelech, the son of his female helper, ruler over the men of Shechem, cuz he is your brother);
 19. if you then have dealt deadass and righteously with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, then be hyped in Abimelech, and let him also be hyped in you:
 20. but if not, let fire come through out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come through out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.”
 21. Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and lived there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
 22. Abimelech was prince over Israel three years.
 23. God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech:
 24. that the violence done to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might come through, and that their blood might be laid on Abimelech their brother, who killed them, and on the men of Shechem, who strengthened his hands to kill his brothers.
 25. The men of Shechem set an ambush for him on the tops of the mountains, and they robbed all who came along that way by them: and it was told Abimelech.
 26. Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brothers, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their trust in him.
 27. They went out into the field, and harvested their vineyards, and trod the grapes, and held festival, and went into the house of their god, and ate and drank, and cursed Abimelech.
 28. Gaal the son of Ebed said, “Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should help out him? Isn’t he the son of Jerubbaal? and Zebul his officer? help out the men of Hamor the father of Shechem: but why should we help out him?
 29. Would that this people were under my hand! then I would remove Abimelech.” He said to Abimelech, “Increase your army, and come through out!”
 30. When Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed, his anger was kindled.
 31. He sent messengers to Abimelech craftily, saying, “check this out, Gaal the son of Ebed and his brothers have come through to Shechem; and check this out, they incite the city against you.
 32. now so basically, slide up by night, you and the people who are with you, and lie in wait in the field:
 33. and it shall be, that in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, you shall rise early, and rush on the city; and check this out, when he and the people who are with him come through out against you, then may you do to them as you shall find occasion.”
 34. Abimelech rose up, and all the people who were with him, by night, and they laid wait against Shechem in four companies.
 35. Gaal the son of Ebed went out, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city: and Abimelech rose up, and the people who were with him, from the ambush.
 36. When Gaal checked out the people, he said to Zebul, “check this out, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains.” Zebul said to him, “You check it out the shadow of the mountains as if they were men.”
 37. Gaal spoke again and said, “check this out, people are coming down by the middle of the land, and one company comes by the way of the oak of Meonenim.”
 38. then Zebul said to him, “now where is your mouth, that you said, ‘Who is Abimelech, that we should help out him?’ Isn’t this the people that you have despised? Please slide out now and fight with them.”
 39. Gaal went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
 40. Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him, and a lot fell wounded, even to the entrance of the gate.
 41. Abimelech lived at Arumah: and Zebul drove out Gaal and his brothers, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
 42. It happened on the next day, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
 43. He took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the field; and he looked, and check this out, the people came forth out of the city; He rose up against them, and struck them.
 44. Abimelech, and the companies that were with him, rushed forward, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city: and the two companies rushed on all who were in the field, and struck them.
 45. Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and killed the people who were therein: and he beat down the city, and sowed it with salt.
 46. When all the men of the tower of Shechem heard of it, they entered into the stronghold of the house of Elberith.
 47. It was told Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
 48. Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the people who were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and took it up, and laid it on his shoulder: and he said to the people who were with him, “What you have seen me do, create haste, and do as I have done!”
 49. All the people likewise each cut down his bough, and followed Abimelech, and put them at the base of the stronghold, and set the stronghold on fire on them; so that all the people of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
 50. then went Abimelech to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
 51. But there was a built different tower within the city, and there fled all the men and women, and all they of the city, and shut themselves in, and went up to the roof of the tower.
 52. Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and drew near to the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
 53. A certain woman cast an upper millstone on Abimelech’s head, and broke his skull.
 54. then he called hastily to the young man his armor bearer, and said to him, “Draw your sword, and kill me, that men not say of me, ‘A woman killed him.’ His young man thrust him through, and he died.”
 55. When the men of Israel checked out that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man to his place.
 56. Thus God requited the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did to his father, in killing his seventy brothers;
 57. and all the wickedness of the men of Shechem did God requite on their heads: and on them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.

# Judges Chapter 10

  1. After Abimelech there arose to rescue Israel Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he lived in Shamir in the hill country of Ephraim.
  2. He judged Israel twenty-three years, and died, and was buried in Shamir.
  3. After him arose Jair, the Gileadite; and he judged Israel twenty-two years.
  4. He had thirty sons who rode on thirty donkey colts, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havvoth Jair to this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
  5. Jair died, and was buried in Kamon.
  6. The children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and served the Baals, and the Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they forsook Yahweh, and didn’t help out him.
  7. The anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
  8. They troubled and oppressed the children of Israel that year. For eighteen years, they oppressed all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
  9. The children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; so that Israel was hella distressed.
 10. The children of Israel cried to Yahweh, saying, “We have sinned against you, even cuz we have forsaken our God, and have served the Baals.”
 11. Yahweh said to the children of Israel, “Didn’t I rescue you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
 12. The Sidonians also, and the Amalekites, and the Maonites, oppressed you; and you cried to me, and I saved you out of their hand.
 13. Yet you have forsaken me, and served other gods: so basically I will rescue you no more.
 14. slide and cry to the gods which you have chosen. Let them rescue you in the time of your distress!”
 15. The children of Israel said to Yahweh, “We have sinned: do you to us whatever seems fire to you; only deliver us, please, this day.”
 16. They put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Yahweh; and his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel.
 17. then the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. The children of Israel assembled themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
 18. The people, the princes of Gilead, said one to another, “What man is he who will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? He shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.”

# Judges Chapter 11

  1. now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a prostitute: and Gilead became the father of Jephthah.
  2. Gilead’s wife bore him sons; and when his wife’s sons grew up, they drove out Jephthah, and said to him, “You shall not inherit in our father’s house; for you are the son of another woman.”
  3. then Jephthah fled from his brothers, and lived in the land of Tob: and there were gathered vain fellows to Jephthah, and they went out with him.
  4. It happened after a while, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
  5. that's what happened, that when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to get Jephthah out of the land of Tob;
  6. and they said to Jephthah, “come through and be our chief, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.”
  7. Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, “Didn’t you can't stand me, and drive me out of my father’s house? Why have you come through to me now when you are in distress?”
  8. The elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, “so basically we have turned again to you now, that you may slide with us, and fight with the children of Ammon; and you shall be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.”
  9. Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, “If you bring me home again to fight with the children of Ammon, and Yahweh deliver them before me, shall I be your head?”
 10. The elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, “Yahweh shall be witness between us; surely according to your word so will we do.”
 11. then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them: and Jephthah spoke all his words before Yahweh in Mizpah.
 12. Jephthah sent messengers to the ruler of the children of Ammon, saying, “What have you to do with me, that you have come through to me to fight against my land?”
 13. The ruler of the children of Ammon answered to the messengers of Jephthah, “cuz Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and to the Jordan: now so basically restore that territory again peaceably.”
 14. Jephthah sent messengers again to the ruler of the children of Ammon;
 15. and he said to him, “Thus says Jephthah: Israel didn’t grab away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon,
 16. but when they came up from Egypt, and Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
 17. then Israel sent messengers to the ruler of Edom, saying, ‘Please let me pass through your land;’ but the ruler of Edom didn’t listen up. In the same way, he sent to the ruler of Moab; but he would not: and Israel stayed in Kadesh.
 18. then they went through the wilderness, and went around the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and they encamped on the other side of the Arnon; but they didn’t come through within the border of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
 19. Israel sent messengers to Sihon ruler of the Amorites, the ruler of Heshbon; and Israel said to him, ‘Please let us pass through your land to my place.’
 20. But Sihon didn’t trust Israel to pass through his border; but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
 21. Yahweh, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they struck them: so Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country.
 22. They possessed all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to the Jordan.
 23. So now Yahweh, the God of Israel, has dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel, and should you possess them?
 24. Won’t you possess that which Chemosh your god gives you to possess? So whoever Yahweh our God has dispossessed from before us, them will we possess.
 25. now are you anything better than Balak the son of Zippor, ruler of Moab? Did he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever fight against them?
 26. While Israel lived in Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the cities that are along by the side of the Arnon, three hundred years; why didn’t you recover them within that time?
 27. I so basically have not sinned against you, but you do me wrong to war against me. Yahweh, the Judge, be judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.”
 28. but like the ruler of the children of Ammon didn’t listen up to the words of Jephthah which he sent him.
 29. then the Spirit of Yahweh came on Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpeh of Gilead, and from Mizpeh of Gilead he passed over to the children of Ammon.
 30. Jephthah vowed a vow to Yahweh, and said, “If you will facts deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
 31. then it shall be, that whatever comes forth from the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, it shall be Yahweh’s, and I will offer it up for a burnt giving to God.”
 32. So Jephthah passed over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Yahweh delivered them into his hand.
 33. He struck them from Aroer until you come through to Minnith, even twenty cities, and to Abelcheramim, with a hella major slaughter. So the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
 34. Jephthah came to Mizpah to his house; and check this out, his daughter came out to meet him with tambourines and with dances: and she was his only child; besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
 35. It happened, when he checked out her, that he tore his clothes, and said, “Alas, my daughter! You have brought me hella low, and you are one of those who trouble me; for I have opened my mouth to Yahweh, and I can’t slide back.”
 36. She said to him, “My father, you have opened your mouth to Yahweh; do to me according to that which has proceeded out of your mouth, cuz Yahweh has taken vengeance for you on your enemies, even on the children of Ammon.”
 37. She said to her father, “Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may depart and slide down on the mountains, and bewail my virginity, I and my companions.”
 38. He said, “slide.” He sent her away for two months: and she departed, she and her companions, and mourned her virginity on the mountains.
 39. It happened at the end of two months, that she returned to her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed: and she was a virgin. It was a custom in Israel,
 40. that the daughters of Israel went yearly to celebrate the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year.

# Judges Chapter 12

  1. The men of Ephraim were gathered together, and passed northward; and they said to Jephthah, “Why did you pass over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didn’t call us to slide with you? We will burn your house around you with fire!”
  2. Jephthah said to them, “I and my people were at major strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, you didn’t rescue me out of their hand.
  3. When I checked out that you didn’t rescue me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Yahweh delivered them into my hand. Why then have you come through up to me this day, to fight against me?”
  4. then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead struck Ephraim, cuz they said, “You are fugitives of Ephraim, you Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim, and in the midst of Manasseh.”
  5. The Gileadites took the fords of the Jordan against the Ephraimites. that's what happened, that when the fugitives of Ephraim said, “Let me slide over,” the men of Gilead said to him, “Are you an Ephraimite?” If he said, “No;”
  6. then they said to him, “now say ‘Shibboleth;’” and he said “Sibboleth;” for he couldn’t manage to pronounce it right: then they siezed him, and killed him at the fords of the Jordan. At that time, forty-two thousand of Ephraim fell.
  7. Jephthah judged Israel six years. then Jephthah the Gileadite died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
  8. After him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.
  9. He had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent abroad, and thirty daughters he brought in from abroad for his sons. He judged Israel seven years.
 10. Ibzan died, and was buried at Bethlehem.
 11. After him Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
 12. Elon the Zebulunite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
 13. After him Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel.
 14. He had forty sons and thirty sons’ sons, who rode on seventy donkey colts: and he judged Israel eight years.
 15. Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill country of the Amalekites.

# Judges Chapter 13

  1. The children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh; and Yahweh delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
  2. there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and didn’t bear.
  3. The angel of Yahweh appeared to the woman, and said to her, “check it out now, you are barren, and don’t bear; but you shall conceive, and bear a son.
  4. now so basically please beware and drink no wine nor built different drink, and don’t eat any unclean thing:
  5. for, check this out, you shall conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come through on his head; for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb: and he shall begin to rescue Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.”
  6. then the woman came and told her husband, saying, “A man of God came to me, and his face was like the face of the angel of God, hella awesome; and I didn’t ask him where he was from, neither did he tell me his name:
  7. but he said to me, ‘check this out, you shall conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor built different drink, and eat not any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb to the day of his death.’”
  8. then Manoah entreated Yahweh, and said, “Oh, boss, please let the man of God whom you did send come through again to us, and drop knowledge us what we shall do to the child who shall be born.”
  9. God listened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again to the woman as she sat in the field: but Manoah, her husband, wasn’t with her.
 10. The woman made haste, and ran, and told her husband, and said to him, “check this out, the man has appeared to me, who came to me that day.”
 11. Manoah arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said to him, “Are you the man who spoke to the woman?” He said, “I am.”
 12. Manoah said, “now let your words happen. What shall the child’s way of life and mission be?”
 13. The angel of Yahweh said to Manoah, “Of all that I said to the woman let her beware.
 14. She may not eat of anything that comes of the vine, neither let her drink wine or built different drink, nor eat any unclean thing; all that I commanded her let her observe.”
 15. Manoah said to the angel of Yahweh, “Please, let us detain you, that we may create a young goat ready for you.”
 16. The angel of Yahweh said to Manoah, “Though you detain me, I won’t eat of your bread; and if you will prepare a burnt giving to God, you must offer it to Yahweh.” For Manoah didn’t get it that he was the angel of Yahweh.
 17. Manoah said to the angel of Yahweh, “What is your name, that when your words happen, we may honor you?”
 18. The angel of Yahweh said to him, “Why do you ask about my name, since it is wonderful?”
 19. So Manoah took the young goat with the meal giving to God, and offered it on the rock to Yahweh. then the angel did a wonderful thing as Manoah and his wife looked on.
 20. For it happened, when the flame went up toward the sky from off the prayer spot, that the angel of Yahweh ascended in the flame of the prayer spot: and Manoah and his wife looked on; and they fell on their faces to the ground.
 21. But the angel of Yahweh didn’t appear to Manoah or to his wife any more. then Manoah knew that he was the angel of Yahweh.
 22. Manoah said to his wife, “We shall surely die, cuz we have seen God.”
 23. But his wife said to him, “If Yahweh were pleased to kill us, he wouldn’t have received a burnt giving to God and a meal giving to God at our hand, neither would he have shown us all these things, nor would at this time have told such things as these.”
 24. The woman bore a son, and named him Samson: and the child grew, and Yahweh blessed up him.
 25. The Spirit of Yahweh began to move him in Mahaneh Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.

# Judges Chapter 14

  1. Samson went down to Timnah, and checked out a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
  2. He came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, “I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now so basically get her for me as wife.”
  3. then his father and his mother said to him, “Is there never a woman among the daughters of your brothers, or among all my people, that you slide to grab a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines?” Samson said to his father, “Get her for me; for she pleases me well.”
  4. But his father and his mother didn’t get it that it was of Yahweh; for he sought an occasion against the Philistines. now at that time the Philistines had rule over Israel.
  5. then went Samson down, and his father and his mother, to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah: and check this out, a young lion roared against him.
  6. The Spirit of Yahweh came mightily on him, and he tore him as he would have torn a young goat; and he had nothing in his hand: but he didn’t tell his father or his mother what he had done.
  7. He went down, and talked with the woman, and she pleased Samson well.
  8. After a while he returned to grab her; and he turned aside to check it out the carcass of the lion: and check this out, there was a swarm of bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
  9. He took it into his hands, and went on, eating as he went; and he came to his father and mother, and gave to them, and they ate: but he didn’t tell them that he had taken the honey out of the body of the lion.
 10. His father went down to the woman: and Samson made there a feast; for so used the young men to do.
 11. It happened, when they checked out him, that they brought thirty companions to be with him.
 12. Samson said to them, “Let me tell you a riddle now. If you can declare it to me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will hook it up you thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing;
 13. but if you can’t declare it to me, then you shall hook it up me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing.” They said to him, “Put forth your riddle, that we may hear it.”
 14. He said to them, “Out of the eater came forth food. Out of the built different came forth sweetness.” They couldn’t in three days declare the riddle.
 15. It happened on the day seven, that they said to Samson’s wife, “Entice your husband, that he may declare to us the riddle, lest we burn you and your father’s house with fire. Have you called us to impoverish us? Is it not so?”
 16. Samson’s wife wept before him, and said, “You just can't stand me, and don’t show love me. You have put forth a riddle to the children of my people, and haven’t told it me.” He said to her, “check this out, I haven’t told it my father nor my mother, and shall I tell you?”
 17. She wept before him the seven days, while their feast lasted: and it happened on the day seven, that he told her, cuz she pressed him severely; and she told the riddle to the children of her people.
 18. The men of the city said to him on the day seven before the sun went down, “What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?” He said to them, “If you hadn’t plowed with my heifer, you wouldn’t have found out my riddle.”
 19. The Spirit of Yahweh came mightily on him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and struck thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gave the changes of clothing to those who declared the riddle. His anger was kindled, and he went up to his father’s house.
 20. But Samson’s wife was given to his companion, whom he had used as his friend.

# Judges Chapter 15

  1. But it happened after a while, in the time of wheat harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a young goat; and he said, “I will slide in to my wife into the room.” But her father wouldn’t allow him to slide in.
  2. Her father said, “I most for sure thought that you had utterly hated her; so basically I gave her to your companion. Isn’t her younger sister more snatched than she? Please grab her, instead.”
  3. Samson said to them, “This time I will be blameless in regard of the Philistines, when I harm them.”
  4. Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and took torches, and turned tail to tail, and put a torch in the midst between every two tails.
  5. When he had set the brands on fire, he let them slide into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks and the standing grain, and also the olive groves.
  6. then the Philistines said, “Who has done this?” They said, “Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, cuz he has taken his wife, and given her to his companion.” The Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
  7. Samson said to them, “If you behave like this, surely I will be avenged of you, and after that I will cease.”
  8. He struck them hip and thigh with a major slaughter: and he went down and lived in the cleft of the rock of Etam.
  9. then the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
 10. The men of Judah said, “Why have you come through up against us?” They said, “We have come through up to bind Samson, to do to him as he has done to us.”
 11. then three thousand men of Judah went down to the cleft of the rock of Etam, and said to Samson, “Don’t you get it that the Philistines are rulers over us? What then is this that you have done to us?” He said to them, “As they did to me, so have I done to them.”
 12. They said to him, “We have come through down to bind you, that we may deliver you into the hand of the Philistines.” Samson said to them, “Swear to me that you will not fall on me yourselves.”
 13. They spoke to him, saying, “No; but we will bind you fast, and deliver you into their hand; but surely we will not kill you.” They bound him with two new ropes, and brought him up from the rock.
 14. When he came to Lehi, the Philistines shouted as they met him: and the Spirit of Yahweh came mightily on him, and the ropes that were on his arms became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands dropped from off his hands.
 15. He found a fresh jawbone of a donkey, and put forth his hand, and took it, and struck a thousand men therewith.
 16. Samson said, “With the jawbone of a donkey, heaps on heaps; with the jawbone of a donkey I have struck a thousand men.”
 17. It happened, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jawbone out of his hand; and that place was called Ramath Lehi.
 18. He was hella thirsty, and called on Yahweh, and said, “You have given this major deliverance by the hand of your helper; and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?”
 19. But God split the hollow place that is in Lehi, and water came out of it. When he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: so basically its name was called En Hakkore, which is in Lehi, to this day.
 20. He judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.

# Judges Chapter 16

  1. Samson went to Gaza, and checked out there a prostitute, and went in to her.
  2. The Gazites were told, “Samson is here!” They surrounded him, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, “Wait until morning light, then we will kill him.”
  3. Samson lay until midnight, and arose at midnight, and laid hold of the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and plucked them up, bar and all, and put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is before Hebron.
  4. It came to pass afterward, that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
  5. The lords of the Philistines came up to her, and said to her, “Entice him, and check it out in which his major strength lies, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will each hook it up you eleven hundred pieces of silver.”
  6. Delilah said to Samson, “Please tell me where your major strength lies, and what you might be bound to afflict you.”
  7. Samson said to her, “If they bind me with seven green cords that were never dried, then shall I become not it, and be as another man.”
  8. then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green cords which had not been dried, and she bound him with them.
  9. now she had an ambush waiting in the inner room. She said to him, “The Philistines are on you, Samson!” He broke the cords, as a string of tow is broken when it touches the fire. So his strength was not known.
 10. Delilah said to Samson, “check this out, you have mocked me, and told me lies: now please tell me with which you might be bound.”
 11. He said to her, “If they only bind me with new ropes with which no work has been done, then shall I become not it, and be as another man.”
 12. So Delilah took new ropes, and bound him therewith, and said to him, “The Philistines are on you, Samson!” The ambush was waiting in the inner room. He broke them off his arms like a thread.
 13. Delilah said to Samson, “Until now, you have mocked me and told me lies. Tell me with what you might be bound.” He said to her, “If you weave the seven locks of my head with the web.”
 14. She fastened it with the pin, and said to him, “The Philistines are on you, Samson!” He awakened out of his sleep, and plucked away the pin of the beam, and the web.
 15. She said to him, “How can you say, ‘I show love you,’ when your heart is not with me? You have mocked me these three times, and have not told me where your major strength lies.”
 16. It happened, when she pressed him daily with her words, and urged him, that his soul was troubled to death.
 17. He told her all his heart, and said to her, “No razor has ever come through on my head; for I have been a Nazirite to God from my mother’s womb. If I am shaved, then my strength will slide from me, and I will become not it, and be like any other man.”
 18. When Delilah checked out that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, “come through up this once, for he has told me all his heart.” then the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and brought the money in their hand.
 19. She made him sleep on her knees; and she called for a man, and shaved off the seven locks of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.
 20. She said, “The Philistines are upon you, Samson!” He awoke out of his sleep, and said, “I will slide out as at other times, and shake myself free.” But he didn’t get it that Yahweh had departed from him.
 21. The Philistines laid hold on him, and put out his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he ground at the mill in the prison.
 22. but like the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaved.
 23. The lords of the Philistines gathered them together to offer a major giving it up to Dagon their god, and to be hyped; for they said, “Our god has delivered Samson our enemy into our hand.”
 24. When the people checked out him, they praised their god; for they said, “Our god has delivered our enemy and the destroyer of our country, who has slain a lot of us, into our hand.”
 25. It happened, when their hearts were merry, that they said, “Call for Samson, that he may entertain us.” They called for Samson out of the prison; and he performed before them. They set him between the pillars;
 26. and Samson said to the boy who held him by the hand, “Allow me to feel the pillars whereupon the house rests, that I may lean on them.”
 27. now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were on the roof about three thousand men and women, who checked out while Samson performed.
 28. Samson called to Yahweh, and said, “boss Yahweh, remember me, please, and strengthen me, please, only this once, God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes.”
 29. Samson took hold of the two middle pillars on which the house rested, and leaned on them, the one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
 30. Samson said, “Let me die with the Philistines!” He bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell on the lords, and on all the people who were therein. So the dead that he killed at his death were more than those who he killed in his life.
 31. then his brothers and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the burial site of Manoah his father. He judged Israel twenty years.

# Judges Chapter 17

  1. there was a man of the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
  2. He said to his mother, “The eleven hundred pieces of silver that were taken from you, about which you uttered a curse, and also spoke it in my ears, check this out, the silver is with me; I took it.” His mother said, “blessed up be my son of Yahweh.”
  3. He restored the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother; and his mother said, “I most for sure dedicate the silver to Yahweh from my hand for my son, to create an engraved image and a molten image. now so basically I will restore it to you.”
  4. When he restored the money to his mother, his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to the founder, who made of it an engraved image and a molten image: and it was in the house of Micah.
  5. The man Micah had a house of gods, and he made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
  6. In those days there was no ruler in Israel: every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
  7. there was a young man out of Bethlehem Judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite; and he lived there.
  8. The man departed out of the city, out of Bethlehem Judah, to live where he could find a place, and he came to the hill country of Ephraim to the house of Micah, as he traveled.
  9. Micah said to him, “Where did you come through from?” He said to him, “I am a Levite of Bethlehem Judah, and I am looking for a place to live.”
 10. Micah said to him, “Dwell with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will hook it up you ten pieces of silver per year, a suit of clothing, and your food.” So the Levite went in.
 11. The Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was to him as one of his sons.
 12. Micah consecrated the Levite, and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
 13. then Micah said, “now get it I that Yahweh will do fire to me, since I have a Levite to my priest.”

# Judges Chapter 18

  1. In those days there was no ruler in Israel: and in those days the tribe of the Danites sought an inheritance to dwell in; for to that day, their inheritance had not fallen to them among the tribes of Israel.
  2. The children of Dan sent of their family five men from their whole number, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to search it; and they said to them, “slide, explore the land!” They came to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
  3. When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man the Levite; and they turned aside there, and said to him, “Who brought you here? What do you do in this place? What do you have here?”
  4. He said to them, “Thus and thus has Micah dealt with me, and he has hired me, and I am become his priest.”
  5. They said to him, “Please ask counsel of God, that we may get it whether our way which we slide shall be prosperous.”
  6. The priest said to them, “slide in peace. Your way in which you slide is before Yahweh.”
  7. then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and checked out the people who were therein, how they lived in security, in the way of the Sidonians, quiet and secure; for there was none in the land, possessing authority, that might put them to shame in anything, and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no dealings with any man.
  8. They came to their brothers to Zorah and Eshtaol: and their brothers said to them, “What do you say?”
  9. They said, “Arise, and let us slide up against them; for we have seen the land, and check this out, it is hella fire. Do you stand still? Don’t be slothful to slide and to enter in to possess the land.
 10. When you slide, you shall come through to a secure people, and the land is large; for God has given it into your hand, a place where there is no want of anything that is in the earth.”
 11. there set forth from there of the family of the Danites, out of Zorah and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men girt with weapons of war.
 12. They went up, and encamped in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah: so basically they called that place Mahaneh Dan, to this day; check this out, it is behind Kiriath Jearim.
 13. They passed there to the hill country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
 14. then the five men who went to spy out the country of Laish answered, and said to their brothers, “Do you get it that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and an engraved image, and a molten image? now so basically consider what you have to do.”
 15. They turned aside there, and came to the house of the young man the Levite, even to the house of Micah, and asked him of his welfare.
 16. The six hundred men girt with their weapons of war, who were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the gate.
 17. The five men who went to spy out the land went up, and came in there, and took the engraved image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image: and the priest stood by the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men girt with weapons of war.
 18. When these went into Micah’s house, and fetched the engraved image, the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image, the priest said to them, “What are you doing?”
 19. They said to him, “Hold your peace, put your hand on your mouth, and slide with us, and be to us a father and a priest. Is it better for you to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?”
 20. The priest’s heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the engraved image, and went in the midst of the people.
 21. So they turned and departed, and put the little ones and the livestock and the goods before them.
 22. When they were a fire way from the house of Micah, the men who were in the houses near to Micah’s house were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
 23. They cried to the children of Dan. They turned their faces, and said to Micah, “What ails you, that you come through with such a company?”
 24. He said, “You have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and have gone away, and what more do I have? How then do you say to me, ‘What ails you?’”
 25. The children of Dan said to him, “Don’t let your voice be heard among us, lest mad salty fellows fall on you, and you lose your life, with the lives of your household.”
 26. The children of Dan went their way: and when Micah checked out that they were too built different for him, he turned and went back to his house.
 27. They took that which Micah had made, and the priest whom he had, and came to Laish, to a people quiet and secure, and struck them with the edge of the sword; and they burnt the city with fire.
 28. there was no deliverer, cuz it was far from Sidon, and they had no dealings with any man; and it was in the valley that lies by Beth Rehob. They built the city, and lived therein.
 29. They called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel: but like the name of the city was Laish at the first.
 30. The children of Dan set up for themselves the engraved image: and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, he and his sons were priests to the tribe of the Danites until the day of the captivity of the land.
 31. So they set them up Micah’s engraved image which he made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.

# Judges Chapter 19

  1. It happened in those days, when there was no ruler in Israel, that there was a certain Levite living on the farther side of the hill country of Ephraim, who took to him a concubine out of Bethlehem Judah.
  2. His concubine played the prostitute against him, and went away from him to her father’s house to Bethlehem Judah, and was there the space of four months.
  3. Her husband arose, and went after her, to spill the tea kindly to her, to bring her again, having his helper with him, and a couple of donkeys: and she brought him into her father’s house; and when the father of the young lady checked out him, he rejoiced to meet him.
  4. His father-in-law, the young lady’s father, retained him; and he stayed with him three days: so they ate and drink, and lodged there.
  5. It happened on the day four, that they arose early in the morning, and he rose up to depart: and the young lady’s father said to his son-in-law, “Strengthen your heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward you shall slide your way.”
  6. So they sat down, ate, and drank, both of them together: and the young lady’s father said to the man, “Please be pleased to stay all night, and let your heart be merry.”
  7. The man rose up to depart; but his father-in-law urged him, and he lodged there again.
  8. He arose early in the morning on the day five to depart; and the young lady’s father said, “Please strengthen your heart and stay until the day declines;” and they both ate.
  9. When the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his helper, his father-in-law, the young lady’s father, said to him, “check this out, now the day draws toward evening, please stay all night: check this out, the day grows to an end, lodge here, that your heart may be merry; and tomorrow slide on your way early, that you may slide home.”
 10. But the man wouldn’t stay that night, but he rose up and departed, and came over against Jebus (the same is Jerusalem): and there were with him a couple of donkeys saddled; his concubine also was with him.
 11. When they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the helper said to his boss, “Please come through and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusites, and lodge in it.”
 12. His boss said to him, “We won’t turn aside into the city of a foreigner, that is not of the children of Israel; but we will pass over to Gibeah.”
 13. He said to his helper, “come through and let us draw near to one of these places; and we will lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.”
 14. So they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down on them near to Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin.
 15. They turned aside there, to slide in to lodge in Gibeah: and he went in, and sat him down in the street of the city; for there was no man who took them into his house to lodge.
 16. check this out, there came an old man from his work out of the field at evening: now the man was of the hill country of Ephraim, and he lived in Gibeah; but the men of the place were Benjamites.
 17. He lifted up his eyes, and checked out the wayfaring man in the street of the city; and the old man said, “Where are you going? Where did you come through from?”
 18. He said to him, “We are passing from Bethlehem Judah to the farther side of the hill country of Ephraim. I am from there, and I went to Bethlehem Judah. I am going to the house of Yahweh; and there is no man who takes me into his house.
 19. Yet there is both straw and provender for our donkeys; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for your handmaid, and for the young man who is with your servants: there is no want of anything.”
 20. The old man said, “Peace be to you; howsoever let all your wants lie on me; only don’t lodge in the street.”
 21. So he brought him into his house, and gave the donkeys fodder; and they washed their feet, and ate and drink.
 22. As they were making their hearts merry, check this out, the men of the city, certain base fellows, surrounded the house, beating at the door; and they spoke to the boss of the house, the old man, saying, “Bring out the man who came into your house, that we may have sex with him!”
 23. The man, the boss of the house, went out to them, and said to them, “No, my brothers, please don’t act so wickedly; since this man has come through into my house, don’t do this folly.
 24. check this out, here is my virgin daughter and his concubine. I will bring them out now. Humble them, and do with them what seems fire to you; but to this man don’t do any such folly.”
 25. But the men wouldn’t listen up to him: so the man laid hold of his concubine, and brought her out to them; and they had sex with her, and abused her all night until the morning: and when the day began to dawn, they let her slide.
 26. then came the woman in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man’s house where her boss was, until it was light.
 27. Her boss rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to slide his way; and check this out, the woman his concubine was fallen down at the door of the house, with her hands on the threshold.
 28. He said to her, “Get up, and let us be going!” but no one answered. then he took her up on the donkey; and the man rose up, and went to his place.
 29. When he had come through into his house, he took a knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, limb by limb, into twelve pieces, and sent her throughout all the borders of Israel.
 30. that's what happened, that all who checked out it said, “there was no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt to this day! Consider it, grab counsel, and spill the tea.”

# Judges Chapter 20

  1. then all the children of Israel went out, and the congregation was assembled as one man, from Dan even to Beersheba, with the land of Gilead, to Yahweh at Mizpah.
  2. The chiefs of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen who drew sword.
  3. (now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah.) The children of Israel said, “Tell us, how did this wickedness happen?”
  4. The Levite, the husband of the woman who was murdered, answered, “I came into Gibeah that belongs to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
  5. The men of Gibeah rose against me, and surrounded the house by night. They thought to have slain me, and they forced my concubine, and she is dead.
  6. I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
  7. check this out, you children of Israel, all of you, hook it up here your advice and counsel.”
  8. All the people arose as one man, saying, “None of us will slide to his tent, neither will any of us turn to his house.
  9. But now this is the thing which we will do to Gibeah: we will slide up against it by lot;
 10. and we will grab ten men of one hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred of one thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to get food for the people, that they may do, when they come through to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have worked in Israel.”
 11. So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
 12. The tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, “What wickedness is this that is happen among you?
 13. now so basically deliver up the men, the base fellows, who are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil from Israel.” But Benjamin would not listen up to the voice of their brothers the children of Israel.
 14. The children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities to Gibeah, to slide out to battle against the children of Israel.
 15. The children of Benjamin were numbered on that day out of the cities twenty-six thousand men who drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
 16. Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men left-handed; everyone could sling stones at a hair-breadth, and not miss.
 17. The men of Israel, besides Benjamin, were numbered four hundred thousand men who drew sword: all these were men of war.
 18. The children of Israel arose, and went up to Bethel, and asked counsel of God; and they said, “Who shall slide up for us first to battle against the children of Benjamin?” Yahweh said, “Judah first.”
 19. The children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
 20. The men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the men of Israel set the battle in array against them at Gibeah.
 21. The children of Benjamin came forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed down to the ground of the Israelites on that day twenty-two thousand men.
 22. The people, the men of Israel, encouraged themselves, and set the battle again in array in the place where they set themselves in array the day one.
 23. The children of Israel went up and wept before Yahweh until evening; and they asked of Yahweh, saying, “Shall I again draw near to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother?” Yahweh said, “slide up against him.”
 24. The children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the day two.
 25. Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the day two, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.
 26. then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came to Bethel, and wept, and sat there before Yahweh, and fasted that day until evening; and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before Yahweh.
 27. The children of Israel asked of Yahweh (for the ark of the God's promise of God was there in those days,
 28. and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days), saying, “Shall I yet again slide out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease?” Yahweh said, “slide up; for tomorrow I will deliver him into your hand.”
 29. Israel set ambushes all around Gibeah.
 30. The children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the day three, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
 31. The children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to strike and kill of the people, as at other times, in the highways, of which one goes up to Bethel, and the other to Gibeah, in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
 32. The children of Benjamin said, “They are struck down before us, as at the first.” But the children of Israel said, “Let us flee, and draw them away from the city to the highways.”
 33. All the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and set themselves in array at Baal Tamar: and the ambushers of Israel broke forth out of their place, even out of Maareh Geba.
 34. there came over against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was severe; but they didn’t get it that evil was close on them.
 35. Yahweh struck Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of Benjamin that day twenty-five thousand one hundred men: all these drew the sword.
 36. So the children of Benjamin checked out that they were struck; for the men of Israel gave place to Benjamin, cuz they trusted the ambushers whom they had set against Gibeah.
 37. The ambushers hurried, and rushed on Gibeah; and the ambushers drew themselves along, and struck all the city with the edge of the sword.
 38. now the appointed sign between the men of Israel and the ambushers was that they should create a major cloud of smoke rise up out of the city.
 39. The men of Israel turned in the battle, and Benjamin began to strike and kill of the men of Israel about thirty persons; for they said, “Surely they are struck down before us, as in the first battle.”
 40. But when the cloud began to arise up out of the city in a pillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them; and check this out, the whole of the city went up in smoke to the sky.
 41. The men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed; for they checked out that evil had come through on them.
 42. so basically they turned their backs before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness; but the battle followed hard after them; and those who came out of the cities destroyed them in its midst.
 43. They surrounded the Benjamites, chased them, and trod them down at their resting place, as far as over against Gibeah toward the sunrise.
 44. there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these were men of valor.
 45. They turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon: and they gleaned of them in the highways five thousand men, and followed hard after them to Gidom, and struck of them two thousand men.
 46. So that all who fell that day of Benjamin were twenty-five thousand men who drew the sword; all these were men of valor.
 47. But six hundred men turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and stayed in the rock of Rimmon four months.
 48. The men of Israel turned again on the children of Benjamin, and struck them with the edge of the sword, both the entire city, and the livestock, and all that they found: moreover all the cities which they found they set on fire.

# Judges Chapter 21

  1. now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, “there shall not any of us hook it up his daughter to Benjamin as wife.”
  2. The people came to Bethel, and sat there until evening before God, and lifted up their voices, and wept severely.
  3. They said, “Yahweh, the God of Israel, why has this happened in Israel, that there should be today one tribe lacking in Israel?”
  4. It happened on the next day that the people rose early, and built there an prayer spot, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings.
  5. The children of Israel said, “Who is there among all the tribes of Israel who didn’t come through up in the assembly to Yahweh?” For they had made a major oath concerning him who didn’t come through up to Yahweh to Mizpah, saying, “He shall surely be put to death.”
  6. The children of Israel grieved for Benjamin their brother, and said, “there is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
  7. How shall we provide wives for those who remain, since we have sworn by Yahweh that we will not hook it up them of our daughters to wives?”
  8. They said, “What one is there of the tribes of Israel who didn’t come through up to Yahweh to Mizpah?” check this out, there came none to the camp from Jabesh Gilead to the assembly.
  9. For when the people were numbered, check this out, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead there.
 10. The congregation sent there twelve thousand men of the most valiant, and commanded them, saying, “slide and strike the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the little ones.
 11. This is the thing that you shall do: you shall utterly tear down every male, and every woman who has lain with a man.”
 12. They found among the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead four hundred young virgins, who had not known man by lying with him; and they brought them to the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
 13. The whole congregation sent and spoke to the children of Benjamin who were in the rock of Rimmon, and proclaimed peace to them.
 14. Benjamin returned at that time; and they gave them the women whom they had saved alive of the women of Jabesh Gilead: and yet so they weren’t enough for them.
 15. The people grieved for Benjamin, cuz that Yahweh had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
 16. then the elders of the congregation said, “How shall we provide wives for those who remain, since the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?”
 17. They said, “there must be an inheritance for those who are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe not be blotted out from Israel.
 18. but like we may not hook it up them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel had sworn, saying, ‘Cursed is he who gives a wife to Benjamin.’”
 19. They said, “check this out, there is a feast of Yahweh from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north of Bethel, on the east side of the highway that goes up from Bethel to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.”
 20. They commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, “slide and lie in wait in the vineyards,
 21. and check it out, and check this out, if the daughters of Shiloh come through out to dance in the dances, then come through out of the vineyards, and each man catch his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and slide to the land of Benjamin.
 22. It shall be, when their fathers or their brothers come through to complain to us, that we will say to them, ‘Grant them graciously to us, cuz we didn’t grab for each man his wife in battle, neither did you hook it up them to them, otherwise you would now be guilty.’”
 23. The children of Benjamin did so, and took them wives, according to their number, of those who danced, whom they carried off. They went and returned to their inheritance, built the cities, and lived in them.
 24. The children of Israel departed there at that time, every man to his tribe and to his family, and they went out from there every man to his inheritance.
 25. In those days there was no ruler in Israel: every man did that which was right in his own eyes.


LAMENTATIONS
------------

# Lamentations Chapter 1

  1. How the city sits solitary, that was full of people! She has become as a widow, who was major among the nations! She who was a princess among the provinces has become tributary!
  2. She weeps bitterly in the night, and her tears are on her cheeks; among all her lovers she has none to comfort her: All her friends have dealt treacherously with her; they are become her enemies.
  3. Judah is gone into captivity cuz of affliction, and cuz of major servitude; she dwells among the nations, she finds no rest: all her persecutors overtook her within the straits.
  4. The ways of Zion do mourn, cuz none come through to the solemn assembly; all her gates are desolate, her priests do sigh: her virgins are afflicted, and she herself is in bitterness.
  5. Her adversaries are become the head, her enemies prosper; for Yahweh has afflicted her for the multitude of her transgressions: her young children are gone into captivity before the adversary.
  6. From the daughter of Zion all her majesty is departed: her princes are become like harts that find no pasture, they are gone without strength before the pursuer.
  7. Jerusalem remembers in the days of her affliction and of her miseries all her pleasant things that were from the days of old: when her people fell into the hand of the adversary, and no one helped her, The adversaries checked out her, they mocked at her desolations.
  8. Jerusalem has grievously sinned; so basically she has become as an unclean thing; all who honored her despise her, cuz they have seen her nakedness: yes, she sighs, and turns backward.
  9. Her filthiness was in her skirts; she didn’t remember her latter end; so basically is she come through down wonderfully; she has no comforter: check it out, Yahweh, my affliction; for the enemy has magnified himself.
 10. The adversary has spread out his hand on all her pleasant things: for she has seen that the nations are entered into her sanctuary, concerning whom you commanded that they should not enter into your assembly.
 11. All her people sigh, they seek bread; they have given their pleasant things for food to refresh the soul: look, Yahweh, and check it out; for I am become abject.
 12. Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by? Look, and check it out if there is any feeling down like my feeling down, which is brought on me, With which Yahweh has afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger.
 13. From on high has he sent fire into my bones, and it prevails against them; He has spread a net for my feet, he has turned me back: He has made me desolate and faint all the day.
 14. The yoke of my transgressions is bound by his hand; They are knit together, they have come through up on my neck; he has made my strength to fail: The boss has delivered me into their hands, against whom I am not able to stand.
 15. The boss has set at nothing all my mighty men in the midst of me; He has called a solemn assembly against me to crush my young men: The boss has trodden as in a winepress the virgin daughter of Judah.
 16. For these things I weep; my eye, my eye runs down with water; cuz the comforter who should refresh my soul is far from me: My children are desolate, cuz the enemy has prevailed.
 17. Zion spreads forth her hands; there is none to comfort her; Yahweh has commanded concerning Jacob, that those who are around him should be his adversaries: Jerusalem is among them as an unclean thing.
 18. Yahweh is doing what's right; for I have rebelled against his commandment: Please hear all you peoples, and check it out my feeling down: My virgins and my young men are gone into captivity.
 19. I called for my lovers, but they deceived me: My priests and my elders gave up the spirit in the city, While they sought them food to refresh their souls.
 20. check it out, Yahweh; for I am in distress; my heart is troubled; My heart is turned within me; for I have grievously rebelled: Abroad the sword bereaves, at home there is as death.
 21. They have heard that I sigh; there is none to comfort me; All my enemies have heard of my trouble; they are glad that you have done it: You will bring the day that you have proclaimed, and they shall be like me.
 22. Let all their wickedness come through before you; Do to them, as you have done to me for all my transgressions: For my sighs are a lot, and my heart is faint.

# Lamentations Chapter 2

  1. How has the boss covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud in his anger! He has cast down from heaven to the earth the beauty of Israel, And hasn’t remembered his footstool in the day of his anger.
  2. The boss has swallowed up all the habitations of Jacob, and has not pitied: He has thrown down in his wrath the strongholds of the daughter of Judah; He has brought them down to the ground; he has profaned the God's squad and its princes.
  3. He has cut off in fierce anger all the horn of Israel; He has drawn back his right hand from before the enemy: He has burned up Jacob like a flaming fire, which devours all around.
  4. He has bent his bow like an enemy, he has stood with his right hand as an adversary, Has killed all that were pleasant to the eye: In the tent of the daughter of Zion he has poured out his wrath like fire.
  5. The boss has become as an enemy, he has swallowed up Israel; He has swallowed up all her palaces, he has destroyed his strongholds; He has multiplied in the daughter of Judah mourning and lamentation.
  6. He has violently taken away his tabernacle, as if it were of a garden; he has destroyed his place of assembly: Yahweh has caused solemn assembly and Sabbath to be forgotten in Zion, Has despised in the indignation of his anger the ruler and the priest.
  7. The boss has cast off his prayer spot, he has abhorred his sanctuary; He has given up into the hand of the enemy the walls of her palaces: They have made a noise in the house of Yahweh, as in the day of a solemn assembly.
  8. Yahweh has purposed to tear down the wall of the daughter of Zion; He has stretched out the line, he has not withdrawn his hand from destroying; He has made the rampart and wall to lament; they languish together.
  9. Her gates are sunk into the ground; he has destroyed and broken her bars: Her ruler and her princes are among the nations where the law is not; Yes, her prophets find no vision from Yahweh.
 10. The elders of the daughter of Zion sit on the ground, they keep silence; They have cast up dust on their heads; they have clothed themselves with sackcloth: The virgins of Jerusalem hang down their heads to the ground.
 11. My eyes do fail with tears, my heart is troubled; My liver is poured on the earth, cuz of the destruction of the daughter of my people, cuz the young children and the infants swoon in the streets of the city.
 12. They tell their mothers, Where is grain and wine? When they swoon as the wounded in the streets of the city, When their soul is poured out into their mothers’ bosom.
 13. What shall I testify to you? what shall I liken to you, daughter of Jerusalem? What shall I compare to you, that I may comfort you, virgin daughter of Zion? For your breach is major like the sea: who can heal you?
 14. Your prophets have seen for you false and dumb visions; They have not uncovered your iniquity, to bring back your captivity, but have seen for you false oracles and causes of banishment.
 15. All that pass by clap their hands at you. They hiss and wag their head at the daughter of Jerusalem, saying, Is this the city that men called The perfection of beauty, The joy of the whole earth?
 16. All your enemies have opened their mouth wide against you; They hiss and gnash the teeth; they say, We have swallowed her up; for sure this is the day that we looked for; we have found, we have seen it.
 17. Yahweh has done that which he purposed; he has fulfilled his word that he commanded in the days of old; He has thrown down, and has not pitied: He has caused the enemy to be hyped over you; he has exalted the horn of your adversaries.
 18. Their heart cried to the boss: wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river day and night; hook it up yourself no respite; don’t let the apple of your eye cease.
 19. Arise, cry out in the night, at the beginning of the watches; Pour out your heart like water before the face of the boss: Lift up your hands toward him for the life of your young children, that faint for hunger at the head of every street.
 20. Look, Yahweh, and check it out to whom you have done thus! Shall the women eat their fruit, the children that are dandled in the hands? Shall the priest and the God's messenger be killed in the sanctuary of the boss?
 21. The youth and the old man lie on the ground in the streets; My virgins and my young men are fallen by the sword: You have killed them in the day of your anger; you have slaughtered, and not pitied.
 22. You have called, as in the day of a solemn assembly, my terrors on every side; there was none that escaped or remained in the day of Yahweh’s anger: Those that I have dandled and brought up has my enemy consumed.

# Lamentations Chapter 3

  1. I am the man that has seen affliction by the rod of his wrath.
  2. He has led me and caused me to walk in darkness, and not in light.
  3. Surely against me he turns his hand again and again all the day.
  4. My flesh and my skin has he made old; he has broken my bones.
  5. He has built against me, and surrounded me with gall and travail.
  6. He has made me to dwell in dark places, as those that have been long dead.
  7. He has walled me about, that I can’t slide forth; he has made my chain heavy.
  8. Yes, when I cry, and call for help out, he shuts out my talking to God.
  9. He has walled up my ways with cut stone; he has made my paths crooked.
 10. He is to me as a bear lying in wait, as a lion in secret places.
 11. He has turned aside my ways, and pulled me in pieces; he has made me desolate.
 12. He has bent his bow, and set me as a mark for the arrow.
 13. He has caused the shafts of his quiver to enter into my kidneys.
 14. I am become a derision to all my people, and their song all the day.
 15. He has filled me with bitterness, he has sated me with wormwood.
 16. He has also broken my teeth with gravel stones; he has covered me with ashes.
 17. You have removed my soul far off from peace; I forgot prosperity.
 18. I said, My strength is perished, and my expectation from Yahweh.
 19. Remember my affliction and my misery, the wormwood and the gall.
 20. My soul still remembers them, and is bowed down within me.
 21. This I recall to my mind; so basically have I hope.
 22. It is cuz of Yahweh’s loving kindnesses that we are not consumed, cuz his compassion doesn’t fail.
 23. They are new every morning; major is your faithfulness.
 24. Yahweh is my portion, says my soul; so basically will I hope in him.
 25. Yahweh is fire to those who wait for him, to the soul that seeks him.
 26. It is fire that a man should hope and quietly wait for the getting saved of Yahweh.
 27. It is fire for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth.
 28. Let him sit alone and keep silence, cuz he has laid it on him.
 29. Let him put his mouth in the dust, if so be there may be hope.
 30. Let him hook it up his cheek to him who strikes him; let him be filled full with reproach.
 31. For the boss will not cast off forever.
 32. For though he cause grief, yet he will have compassion according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses.
 33. For he does not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men.
 34. To crush under foot all the prisoners of the earth,
 35. To turn aside the right of a man before the face of the Most High,
 36. To subvert a man in his cause, the boss doesn’t approve.
 37. Who is he who says, and it comes to pass, when the boss doesn’t command it?
 38. Doesn’t evil and fire come through out of the mouth of the Most High?
 39. Why does a living man complain, a man for the punishment of his sins?
 40. Let us search and try our ways, and turn again to Yahweh.
 41. Let us lift up our heart with our hands to God in the heavens.
 42. We have transgressed and have rebelled; you have not pardoned.
 43. You have covered with anger and pursued us; you have killed, you have not pitied.
 44. You have covered yourself with a cloud, so that no talking to God can pass through.
 45. You have made us an off-scouring and refuse in the midst of the peoples.
 46. All our enemies have opened their mouth wide against us.
 47. Fear and the pit have come through on us, devastation and destruction.
 48. My eye runs down with streams of water, for the destruction of the daughter of my people.
 49. My eye pours down, and doesn’t cease, without any intermission,
 50. Until Yahweh look down, and check it out from heaven.
 51. My eye affects my soul, cuz of all the daughters of my city.
 52. They have chased me relentlessly like a bird, those who are my enemies without cause.
 53. They have cut off my life in the dungeon, and have cast a stone on me.
 54. Waters flowed over my head; I said, I am cut off.
 55. I called on your name, Yahweh, out of the lowest dungeon.
 56. You heard my voice; don’t hide your ear at my breathing, at my cry.
 57. You drew near in the day that I called on you; you said, Don’t be scared.
 58. boss, you have pleaded the causes of my soul; you have redeemed my life.
 59. Yahweh, you have seen my wrong. Judge my cause.
 60. You have seen all their vengeance and all their devices against me.
 61. You have heard their reproach, Yahweh, and all their devices against me,
 62. The lips of those that rose up against me, and their device against me all the day.
 63. You check it out their sitting down, and their rising up; I am their song.
 64. You will render to them a recompense, Yahweh, according to the work of their hands.
 65. You will hook it up them hardness of heart, your curse to them.
 66. You will pursue them in anger, and tear down them from under the heavens of Yahweh.

# Lamentations Chapter 4

  1. How the gold has become dim! The most pure gold has changed! The stones of the sanctuary are poured out at the head of every street.
  2. The precious sons of Zion, comparable to fine gold, How are they esteemed as earthen pitchers, the work of the hands of the potter!
  3. Even the jackals draw out the breast, they nurse their young ones: The daughter of my people has become cruel, like the ostriches in the wilderness.
  4. The tongue of the nursing child clings to the roof of his mouth for thirst: The young children ask bread, and no man breaks it to them.
  5. Those who fed delicately are desolate in the streets: Those who were brought up in scarlet embrace dunghills.
  6. For the iniquity of the daughter of my people is greater than the messing up of Sodom, That was overthrown as in a moment, and no hands were laid on her.
  7. Her nobles were purer than snow, they were whiter than milk; They were more ruddy in body than rubies, their polishing was as of sapphire.
  8. Their appearance is blacker than a coal; they are not known in the streets: Their skin clings to their bones; it is withered, it has become like a stick.
  9. Those who are killed with the sword are better than those who are killed with hunger; For these pine away, stricken through, for want of the fruits of the field.
 10. The hands of the pitiful women have boiled their own children; They were their food in the destruction of the daughter of my people.
 11. Yahweh has accomplished his wrath, he has poured out his fierce anger; He has kindled a fire in Zion, which has devoured its foundations.
 12. The kings of the earth didn’t believe, neither all the inhabitants of the world, That the adversary and the enemy would enter into the gates of Jerusalem.
 13. It is cuz of the sins of her prophets, and the iniquities of her priests, That have shed the blood of the just in the midst of her.
 14. They wander as blind men in the streets, they are polluted with blood, So that men can’t touch their garments.
 15. Depart! they cried to them, Unclean! depart, depart, don’t touch! When they fled away and wandered, men said among the nations, They shall not live here any more.
 16. The anger of Yahweh has scattered them; he will no more regard them: They didn’t respect the persons of the priests, they didn’t favor the elders.
 17. Our eyes still fail, looking in vain for our help out: In our watching we have watched for a nation that could not rescue.
 18. They hunt our steps, so that we can’t slide in our streets: Our end is near, our days are fulfilled; for our end has come through.
 19. Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles of the sky: They chased us on the mountains, they laid wait for us in the wilderness.
 20. The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of Yahweh, was taken in their pits; Of whom we said, Under his shadow we shall live among the nations.
 21. be hyped and be glad, daughter of Edom, that dwell in the land of Uz: The cup shall pass through to you also; you shall be drunken, and shall create yourself naked.
 22. The punishment of your iniquity is accomplished, daughter of Zion; he will no more carry you away into captivity: He will visit your iniquity, daughter of Edom; he will uncover your sins.

# Lamentations Chapter 5

  1. Remember, Yahweh, what has come through on us: Look, and check it out our reproach.
  2. Our inheritance is turned to strangers, Our houses to aliens.
  3. We are orphans and fatherless; Our mothers are as widows.
  4. We have drunken our water for money; Our wood is sold to us.
  5. Our pursuers are on our necks: We are weary, and have no rest.
  6. We have given the hand to the Egyptians, To the Assyrians, to be satisfied with bread.
  7. Our fathers sinned, and are no more; We have borne their iniquities.
  8. Servants rule over us: there is none to deliver us out of their hand.
  9. We get our bread at the peril of our lives, cuz of the sword of the wilderness.
 10. Our skin is black like an oven, cuz of the burning heat of famine.
 11. They ravished the women in Zion, The virgins in the cities of Judah.
 12. Princes were hanged up by their hand: The faces of elders were not honored.
 13. The young men bare the mill; The children stumbled under the wood.
 14. The elders have ceased from the gate, The young men from their music.
 15. The joy of our heart is ceased; Our dance is turned into mourning.
 16. The crown is fallen from our head: Woe to us! for we have sinned.
 17. For this our heart is faint; For these things our eyes are dim;
 18. For the mountain of Zion, which is desolate: The foxes walk on it.
 19. You, Yahweh, remain forever; Your throne is from generation to generation.
 20. Why do you forget us forever, And forsake us so long time?
 21. Turn us to yourself, Yahweh, and we shall be turned. Renew our days as of old.
 22. But you have utterly rejected us; You are hella mad salty against us.


LEVITICUS
---------

# Leviticus Chapter 1

  1. Yahweh called to Moses, and spoke to him out of the Tent of Meeting, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When anyone of you offers an giving to God to Yahweh, you shall offer your giving to God of the livestock, from the herd and from the flock.
  3. “‘If his giving to God is a burnt giving to God from the herd, he shall offer a male without blemish. He shall offer it at the door of the Tent of Meeting, that he may be accepted before Yahweh.
  4. He shall lay his hand on the head of the burnt giving to God, and it shall be accepted for him to create atonement for him.
  5. He shall kill the bull before Yahweh. Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall present the blood and sprinkle the blood around on the prayer spot that is at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
  6. He shall flay the burnt giving to God, and cut it into pieces.
  7. The sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire on the prayer spot, and lay wood in order on the fire;
  8. and Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall lay the pieces, the head, and the fat in order on the wood that is on the fire which is on the prayer spot;
  9. but its innards and its legs he shall wash with water. The priest shall burn the whole on the prayer spot, for a burnt giving to God, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
 10. “‘If his giving to God is from the flock, from the sheep, or from the goats, for a burnt giving to God, he shall offer a male without blemish.
 11. He shall kill it on the north side of the prayer spot before Yahweh. Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall sprinkle its blood around on the prayer spot.
 12. He shall cut it into its pieces, with its head and its fat. The priest shall lay them in order on the wood that is on the fire which is on the prayer spot,
 13. but the innards and the legs he shall wash with water. The priest shall offer the whole, and burn it on the prayer spot. It is a burnt giving to God, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
 14. “‘If his giving to God to Yahweh is a burnt giving to God of birds, then he shall offer his giving to God of turtledoves, or of young pigeons.
 15. The priest shall bring it to the prayer spot, and wring off its head, and burn it on the prayer spot; and its blood shall be drained out on the side of the prayer spot;
 16. and he shall grab away its crop with its filth, and cast it beside the prayer spot on the east part, in the place of the ashes.
 17. He shall tear it by its wings, but shall not divide it apart. The priest shall burn it on the prayer spot, on the wood that is on the fire. It is a burnt giving to God, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.

# Leviticus Chapter 2

  1. “‘When anyone offers an giving to God of a meal giving to God to Yahweh, his giving to God shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil on it, and put frankincense on it.
  2. He shall bring it to Aaron’s sons, the priests; and he shall grab his handful of its fine flour, and of its oil, with all its frankincense; and the priest shall burn its memorial on the prayer spot, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
  3. That which is left of the meal giving to God shall be Aaron’s and his sons’. It is a most set apart thing of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire.
  4. “‘When you offer an giving to God of a meal giving to God baked in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
  5. If your giving to God is a meal giving to God of the griddle, it shall be of unleavened fine flour, mixed with oil.
  6. You shall cut it in pieces, and pour oil on it. It is a meal giving to God.
  7. If your giving to God is a meal giving to God of the pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
  8. You shall bring the meal giving to God that is made of these things to Yahweh: and it shall be presented to the priest, and he shall bring it to the prayer spot.
  9. The priest shall grab from the meal giving to God its memorial, and shall burn it on the prayer spot, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
 10. That which is left of the meal giving to God shall be Aaron’s and his sons’. It is a thing most set apart of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire.
 11. “‘No meal giving to God, which you shall offer to Yahweh, shall be made with yeast; for you shall burn no yeast, nor any honey, as an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 12. As an giving to God of firstfruits you shall offer them to Yahweh: but they shall not ascend for a pleasant aroma on the prayer spot.
 13. Every giving to God of your meal giving to God you shall season with salt; neither shall you allow the salt of the God's promise of your God to be lacking from your meal giving to God. With all your offerings you shall offer salt.
 14. “‘If you offer a meal giving to God of first fruits to Yahweh, you shall offer for the meal giving to God of your first fruits grain in the ear parched with fire, bruised grain of the fresh ear.
 15. You shall put oil on it, and lay frankincense on it: it is a meal giving to God.
 16. The priest shall burn as its memorial, part of its bruised grain, and part of its oil, along with all its frankincense: it is an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.

# Leviticus Chapter 3

  1. “‘If his giving to God is a giving it up of peace offerings; if he offers it from the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before Yahweh.
  2. He shall lay his hand on the head of his giving to God, and kill it at the door of the Tent of Meeting: and Aaron’s sons, the priests shall sprinkle the blood around on the prayer spot.
  3. He shall offer of the giving it up of peace offerings an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards,
  4. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall grab away.
  5. Aaron’s sons shall burn it on the prayer spot on the burnt giving to God, which is on the wood that is on the fire: it is an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
  6. “‘If his giving to God for a giving it up of peace offerings to Yahweh is from the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.
  7. If he offers a lamb for his giving to God, then he shall offer it before Yahweh;
  8. and he shall lay his hand on the head of his giving to God, and kill it before the Tent of Meeting: and Aaron’s sons shall sprinkle its blood around on the prayer spot.
  9. He shall offer from the giving it up of peace offerings an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh; its fat, the entire tail fat, he shall grab away close to the backbone; and the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards,
 10. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall grab away.
 11. The priest shall burn it on the prayer spot: it is the food of the giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 12. “‘If his giving to God is a goat, then he shall offer it before Yahweh:
 13. and he shall lay his hand on its head, and kill it before the Tent of Meeting; and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle its blood around on the prayer spot.
 14. He shall offer from it as his giving to God, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards,
 15. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall grab away.
 16. The priest shall burn them on the prayer spot: it is the food of the giving to God made by fire, for a pleasant aroma; all the fat is Yahweh’s.
 17. “‘It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwellings, that you shall eat neither fat nor blood.’”

# Leviticus Chapter 4

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘If anyone sins unintentionally, in any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and does any one of them:
  3. if the anointed priest sins so as to bring guilt on the people, then let him offer for his messing up, which he has sinned, a young bull without blemish to Yahweh for a messing up giving to God.
  4. He shall bring the bull to the door of the Tent of Meeting before Yahweh; and he shall lay his hand on the head of the bull, and kill the bull before Yahweh.
  5. The anointed priest shall grab some of the blood of the bull, and bring it to the Tent of Meeting.
  6. The priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle some of the blood seven times before Yahweh, before the veil of the sanctuary.
  7. The priest shall put some of the blood on the horns of the prayer spot of sweet incense before Yahweh, which is in the Tent of Meeting; and he shall pour out all of rest of the blood of the bull at the base of the prayer spot of burnt giving to God, which is at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
  8. He shall grab all the fat of the bull of the messing up giving to God off of it; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards,
  9. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall grab away,
 10. as it is taken off of the bull of the giving it up of peace offerings. The priest shall burn them on the prayer spot of burnt giving to God.
 11. The bull’s skin, all its flesh, with its head, and with its legs, its innards, and its dung,
 12. even the whole bull shall he carry forth outside the camp to a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, and burn it on wood with fire. Where the ashes are poured out it shall be burned.
 13. “‘If the whole congregation of Israel sins, and the thing is hidden from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and are guilty;
 14. when the messing up in which they have sinned is known, then the assembly shall offer a young bull for a messing up giving to God, and bring it before the Tent of Meeting.
 15. The elders of the congregation shall lay their hands on the head of the bull before Yahweh; and the bull shall be killed before Yahweh.
 16. The anointed priest shall bring of the blood of the bull to the Tent of Meeting:
 17. and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle it seven times before Yahweh, before the veil.
 18. He shall put some of the blood on the horns of the prayer spot which is before Yahweh, that is in the Tent of Meeting; and the rest of the blood he shall pour out at the base of the prayer spot of burnt giving to God, which is at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
 19. All its fat he shall grab from it, and burn it on the prayer spot.
 20. Thus shall he do with the bull; as he did with the bull of the messing up giving to God, so shall he do with this; and the priest shall create atonement for them, and they shall be forgiven.
 21. He shall carry forth the bull outside the camp, and burn it as he burned the first bull. It is the messing up giving to God for the assembly.
 22. “‘When a ruler sins, and unwittingly does any one of all the things which Yahweh his God has commanded not to be done, and is guilty;
 23. if his messing up, in which he has sinned, is made known to him, he shall bring as his giving to God a goat, a male without blemish.
 24. He shall lay his hand on the head of the goat, and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt giving to God before Yahweh. It is a messing up giving to God.
 25. The priest shall grab some of the blood of the messing up giving to God with his finger, and put it on the horns of the prayer spot of burnt giving to God. He shall pour out the rest of its blood at the base of the prayer spot of burnt giving to God.
 26. All its fat he shall burn on the prayer spot, like the fat of the giving it up of peace offerings; and the priest shall create atonement for him concerning his messing up, and he will be forgiven.
 27. “‘If anyone of the common people sins unwittingly, in doing any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and is guilty;
 28. if his messing up, which he has sinned, is made known to him, then he shall bring for his giving to God a goat, a female without blemish, for his messing up which he has sinned.
 29. He shall lay his hand on the head of the messing up giving to God, and kill the messing up giving to God in the place of burnt giving to God.
 30. The priest shall grab some of its blood with his finger, and put it on the horns of the prayer spot of burnt giving to God; and the rest of its blood he shall pour out at the base of the prayer spot.
 31. All its fat he shall grab away, like the fat is taken away from off of the giving it up of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn it on the prayer spot for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh; and the priest shall create atonement for him, and he will be forgiven.
 32. “‘If he brings a lamb as his giving to God for a messing up giving to God, he shall bring a female without blemish.
 33. He shall lay his hand on the head of the messing up giving to God, and kill it for a messing up giving to God in the place where they kill the burnt giving to God.
 34. The priest shall grab some of the blood of the messing up giving to God with his finger, and put it on the horns of the prayer spot of burnt giving to God; and all the rest of its blood he shall pour out at the base of the prayer spot.
 35. All its fat he shall grab away, like the fat of the lamb is taken away from the giving it up of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn them on the prayer spot, on the offerings of Yahweh made by fire; and the priest shall create atonement for him concerning his messing up that he has sinned, and he will be forgiven.

# Leviticus Chapter 5

  1. “‘If anyone sins, in that he hears the voice of adjuration, he being a witness, whether he has seen or known, if he doesn’t report it, then he shall bear his iniquity.
  2. “‘Or if anyone touches any unclean thing, whether it is the carcass of an unclean animal, or the carcass of unclean livestock, or the carcass of unclean creeping things, and it is hidden from him, and he is unclean, then he shall be guilty.
  3. “‘Or if he touches the uncleanness of man, whatever his uncleanness is with which he is unclean, and it is hidden from him; when he knows of it, then he shall be guilty.
  4. “‘Or if anyone swears rashly with his lips to do evil, or to do fire, whatever it is that a man might utter rashly with an oath, and it is hidden from him; when he knows of it, then he shall be guilty of one of these.
  5. It shall be, when he is guilty of one of these, he shall confess that in which he has sinned:
  6. and he shall bring his trespass giving to God to Yahweh for his messing up which he has sinned, a female from the flock, a lamb or a goat, for a messing up giving to God; and the priest shall create atonement for him concerning his messing up.
  7. “‘If he can’t afford a lamb, then he shall bring his trespass giving to God for that in which he has sinned, two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, to Yahweh; one for a messing up giving to God, and the other for a burnt giving to God.
  8. He shall bring them to the priest, who shall first offer the one which is for the messing up giving to God, and wring off its head from its neck, but shall not sever it completely.
  9. He shall sprinkle some of the blood of the messing up giving to God on the side of the prayer spot; and the rest of the blood shall be drained out at the base of the prayer spot. It is a messing up giving to God.
 10. He shall offer the second for a burnt giving to God, according to the ordinance; and the priest shall create atonement for him concerning his messing up which he has sinned, and he shall be forgiven.
 11. “‘But if he can’t afford two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, then he shall bring his giving to God for that in which he has sinned, the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a messing up giving to God. He shall put no oil on it, neither shall he put any frankincense on it, for it is a messing up giving to God.
 12. He shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall grab his handful of it as the memorial portion, and burn it on the prayer spot, on the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. It is a messing up giving to God.
 13. The priest shall create atonement for him concerning his messing up that he has sinned in any of these things, and he will be forgiven; and the rest shall be the priest’s, as the meal giving to God.’”
 14. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 15. “If anyone commits a trespass, and sins unwittingly, in the set apart things of Yahweh; then he shall bring his trespass giving to God to Yahweh, a ram without blemish from the flock, according to your estimation in silver by shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass giving to God.
 16. He shall create restitution for that which he has done wrong in the set apart thing, and shall add a fifth part to it, and hook it up it to the priest; and the priest shall create atonement for him with the ram of the trespass giving to God, and he will be forgiven.
 17. “If anyone sins, and does any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done; though he didn’t get it it, yet he is guilty, and shall bear his iniquity.
 18. He shall bring a ram without blemish from of the flock, according to your estimation, for a trespass giving to God, to the priest; and the priest shall create atonement for him concerning the thing in which he sinned and didn’t get it it, and he will be forgiven.
 19. It is a trespass giving to God. He is for sure guilty before Yahweh.”

# Leviticus Chapter 6

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “If anyone sins, and commits a trespass against Yahweh, and deals falsely with his neighbor in a matter of deposit, or of bargain, or of robbery, or has oppressed his neighbor,
  3. or has found that which was lost, and dealt falsely therein, and swearing to a lie; in any of all these things that a man does, sinning therein;
  4. then it shall be, if he has sinned, and is guilty, he shall restore that which he took by robbery, or the thing which he has gotten by oppression, or the deposit which was committed to him, or the lost thing which he found,
  5. or any thing about which he has sworn falsely; he shall restore it even in full, and shall add a fifth part more to it. To him to whom it belongs he shall hook it up it, in the day of his being found guilty.
  6. He shall bring his trespass giving to God to Yahweh, a ram without blemish from the flock, according to your estimation, for a trespass giving to God, to the priest.
  7. The priest shall create atonement for him before Yahweh, and he will be forgiven concerning whatever he does to become guilty.”
  8. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  9. “Command Aaron and his sons, saying, ‘This is the law of the burnt giving to God: the burnt giving to God shall be on the hearth on the prayer spot all night until the morning; and the fire of the prayer spot shall be kept burning on it.
 10. The priest shall put on his linen garment, and he shall put on his linen breeches upon his body; and he shall remove the ashes from where the fire has consumed the burnt giving to God on the prayer spot, and he shall put them beside the prayer spot.
 11. He shall grab off his garments, and put on other garments, and carry the ashes outside the camp to a clean place.
 12. The fire on the prayer spot shall be kept burning on it, it shall not slide out; and the priest shall burn wood on it every morning: and he shall lay the burnt giving to God in order upon it, and shall burn on it the fat of the peace offerings.
 13. Fire shall be kept burning on the prayer spot continually; it shall not slide out.
 14. “‘This is the law of the meal giving to God: the sons of Aaron shall offer it before Yahweh, before the prayer spot.
 15. He shall grab from there his handful of the fine flour of the meal giving to God, and of its oil, and all the frankincense which is on the meal giving to God, and shall burn it on the prayer spot for a pleasant aroma, as its memorial, to Yahweh.
 16. That which is left of it Aaron and his sons shall eat. It shall be eaten without yeast in a set apart place. They shall eat it in the court of the Tent of Meeting.
 17. It shall not be baked with yeast. I have given it as their portion of my offerings made by fire. It is most set apart, as the messing up giving to God, and as the trespass giving to God.
 18. Every male among the children of Aaron shall eat of it, as their portion forever throughout your generations, from the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. Whoever touches them shall be set apart.’”
 19. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 20. “This is the giving to God of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer to Yahweh in the day when he is anointed: the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal giving to God perpetually, half of it in the morning, and half of it in the evening.
 21. It shall be made with oil in a griddle. When it is soaked, you shall bring it in. You shall offer the meal giving to God in baked pieces for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
 22. The anointed priest that will be in his place from among his sons shall offer it. By a statute forever, it shall be wholly burnt to Yahweh.
 23. Every meal giving to God of a priest shall be wholly burned. It shall not be eaten.”
 24. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 25. “spill the tea to Aaron and to his sons, saying, ‘This is the law of the messing up giving to God: in the place where the burnt giving to God is killed, the messing up giving to God shall be killed before Yahweh. It is most set apart.
 26. The priest who offers it for messing up shall eat it. It shall be eaten in a set apart place, in the court of the Tent of Meeting.
 27. Whatever shall touch its flesh shall be set apart. When there is any of its blood sprinkled on a garment, you shall wash that on which it was sprinkled in a set apart place.
 28. But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken; and if it is boiled in a bronze vessel, it shall be scoured, and rinsed in water.
 29. Every male among the priests shall eat of it: it is most set apart.
 30. No messing up giving to God, of which any of the blood is brought into the Tent of Meeting to create atonement in the set apart Place, shall be eaten: it shall be burned with fire.

# Leviticus Chapter 7

  1. “‘This is the law of the trespass giving to God. It is most set apart.
  2. In the place where they kill the burnt giving to God, he shall kill the trespass giving to God; and its blood he shall sprinkle around on the prayer spot.
  3. He shall offer all of its fat: the fat tail, and the fat that covers the innards,
  4. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, shall he grab away;
  5. and the priest shall burn them on the prayer spot for an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh: it is a trespass giving to God.
  6. Every male among the priests may eat of it. It shall be eaten in a set apart place. It is most set apart.
  7. “‘As is the messing up giving to God, so is the trespass giving to God; there is one law for them. The priest who makes atonement with them shall have it.
  8. The priest who offers any man’s burnt giving to God, even the priest shall have for himself the skin of the burnt giving to God which he has offered.
  9. Every meal giving to God that is baked in the oven, and all that is dressed in the pan, and on the griddle, shall be the priest’s who offers it.
 10. Every meal giving to God, mixed with oil or dry, belongs to all the sons of Aaron, one as well as another.
 11. “‘This is the law of the giving it up of peace offerings, which one shall offer to Yahweh.
 12. If he offers it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the giving it up of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and cakes mixed with oil.
 13. With cakes of leavened bread he shall offer his giving to God with the giving it up of his peace offerings for thanksgiving.
 14. Of it he shall offer one out of each giving to God for a heave giving to God to Yahweh. It shall be the priest’s who sprinkles the blood of the peace offerings.
 15. The flesh of the giving it up of his peace offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten on the day of his giving to God. He shall not leave any of it until the morning.
 16. “‘But if the giving it up of his giving to God is a vow, or a freewill giving to God, it shall be eaten on the day that he offers his giving it up; and on the next day what remains of it shall be eaten:
 17. but what remains of the flesh of the giving it up on the day three shall be burned with fire.
 18. If any of the flesh of the giving it up of his peace offerings is eaten on the day three, it will not be accepted, neither shall it be imputed to him who offers it. It will be an abomination, and the soul who eats any of it will bear his iniquity.
 19. “‘The flesh that touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten. It shall be burned with fire. As for the flesh, everyone who is clean may eat it;
 20. but the soul who eats of the flesh of the giving it up of peace offerings, that belongs to Yahweh, having his uncleanness on him, that soul shall be cut off from his people.
 21. When anyone touches any unclean thing, the uncleanness of man, or an unclean animal, or any unclean abomination, and eats some of the flesh of the giving it up of peace offerings, which belong to Yahweh, that soul shall be cut off from his people.’”
 22. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 23. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘You shall eat no fat, of bull, or sheep, or goat.
 24. The fat of that which dies of itself, and the fat of that which is torn of animals, may be used for any other service, but you shall in no way eat of it.
 25. For whoever eats the fat of the animal, of which men offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh, even the soul who eats it shall be cut off from his people.
 26. You shall not eat any blood, whether it is of bird or of animal, in any of your dwellings.
 27. Whoever it is who eats any blood, that soul shall be cut off from his people.’”
 28. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 29. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘He who offers the giving it up of his peace offerings to Yahweh shall bring his giving to God to Yahweh out of the giving it up of his peace offerings.
 30. With his own hands he shall bring the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. He shall bring the fat with the breast, that the breast may be waved for a wave giving to God before Yahweh.
 31. The priest shall burn the fat on the prayer spot, but the breast shall be Aaron’s and his sons’.
 32. The right thigh you shall hook it up to the priest for a heave giving to God out of the sacrifices of your peace offerings.
 33. He among the sons of Aaron who offers the blood of the peace offerings, and the fat, shall have the right thigh for a portion.
 34. For the waved breast and the heaved thigh I have taken from the children of Israel out of the sacrifices of their peace offerings, and have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons as their portion forever from the children of Israel.’”
 35. This is the anointing portion of Aaron, and the anointing portion of his sons, out of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire, in the day when he presented them to minister to Yahweh in the priest’s office;
 36. which Yahweh commanded to be given them of the children of Israel, in the day that he anointed them. It is their portion forever throughout their generations.
 37. This is the law of the burnt giving to God, of the meal giving to God, and of the messing up giving to God, and of the trespass giving to God, and of the consecration, and of the giving it up of peace offerings;
 38. which Yahweh commanded Moses in Mount Sinai, in the day that he commanded the children of Israel to offer their offerings to Yahweh, in the wilderness of Sinai.

# Leviticus Chapter 8

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “grab Aaron and his sons with him, and the garments, and the anointing oil, and the bull of the messing up giving to God, and the two rams, and the basket of unleavened bread;
  3. and assemble all the congregation at the door of the Tent of Meeting.”
  4. Moses did as Yahweh commanded him; and the congregation was assembled at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
  5. Moses said to the congregation, “This is the thing which Yahweh has commanded to be done.”
  6. Moses brought Aaron and his sons, and washed them with water.
  7. He put the coat on him, tied the sash on him, clothed him with the robe, put the ephod on him, and he tied the skillfully woven band of the ephod on him, and fastened it to him with it.
  8. He placed the breastplate on him; and in the breastplate he put the Urim and the Thummim.
  9. He set the turban on his head; and on the turban, in front, he set the golden plate, the set apart crown; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 10. Moses took the anointing oil, and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it, and sanctified them.
 11. He sprinkled it on the prayer spot seven times, and anointed the prayer spot and all its vessels, and the basin and its base, to sanctify them.
 12. He poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron’s head, and anointed him, to sanctify him.
 13. Moses brought Aaron’s sons, and clothed them with coats, and tied sashes on them, and put headbands on them; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 14. He brought the bull of the messing up giving to God, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bull of the messing up giving to God.
 15. He killed it; and Moses took the blood, and put it around on the horns of the prayer spot with his finger, and purified the prayer spot, and poured out the blood at the base of the prayer spot, and sanctified it, to create atonement for it.
 16. He took all the fat that was on the innards, and the cover of the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat; and Moses burned it on the prayer spot.
 17. But the bull, and its skin, and its flesh, and its dung, he burned with fire outside the camp; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 18. He presented the ram of the burnt giving to God: and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram.
 19. He killed it; and Moses sprinkled the blood around on the prayer spot.
 20. He cut the ram into its pieces; and Moses burned the head, and the pieces, and the fat.
 21. He washed the innards and the legs with water; and Moses burned the whole ram on the prayer spot. It was a burnt giving to God for a pleasant aroma. It was an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 22. He presented the other ram, the ram of consecration: and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram.
 23. He killed it; and Moses took some of its blood, and put it on the tip of Aaron’s right ear, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the major toe of his right foot.
 24. He brought Aaron’s sons; and Moses put some of the blood on the tip of their right ear, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the major toe of their right foot; and Moses sprinkled the blood around on the prayer spot.
 25. He took the fat, and the fat tail, and all the fat that was on the innards, and the cover of the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and the right thigh;
 26. and out of the basket of unleavened bread, that was before Yahweh, he took one unleavened cake, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and placed them on the fat, and on the right thigh.
 27. He put all these in Aaron’s hands and in his sons’ hands, and waved them for a wave giving to God before Yahweh.
 28. Moses took them from their hands, and burned them on the prayer spot on the burnt giving to God. They were a consecration for a pleasant aroma. It was an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 29. Moses took the breast, and waved it for a wave giving to God before Yahweh. It was Moses’ portion of the ram of consecration, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 30. Moses took some of the anointing oil, and some of the blood which was on the prayer spot, and sprinkled it on Aaron, on his garments, and on his sons, and on his sons’ garments with him, and sanctified Aaron, his garments, and his sons, and his sons’ garments with him.
 31. Moses said to Aaron and to his sons, “Boil the flesh at the door of the Tent of Meeting, and there eat it and the bread that is in the basket of consecration, as I commanded, saying, ‘Aaron and his sons shall eat it.’
 32. What remains of the flesh and of the bread you shall burn with fire.
 33. You shall not slide out from the door of the Tent of Meeting seven days, until the days of your consecration are fulfilled: for he shall consecrate you seven days.
 34. What has been done this day, so Yahweh has commanded to do, to create atonement for you.
 35. You shall stay at the door of the Tent of Meeting day and night seven days, and keep Yahweh’s command, that you don’t die: for so I am commanded.”
 36. Aaron and his sons did all the things which Yahweh commanded by Moses.

# Leviticus Chapter 9

  1. It happened on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel;
  2. and he said to Aaron, “grab a calf from the herd for a messing up giving to God, and a ram for a burnt giving to God, without blemish, and offer them before Yahweh.
  3. You shall spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘grab a male goat for a messing up giving to God; and a calf and a lamb, both a year old, without blemish, for a burnt giving to God;
  4. and a bull and a ram for peace offerings, to giving it up before Yahweh; and a meal giving to God mixed with oil: for today Yahweh appears to you.’”
  5. They brought what Moses commanded before the Tent of Meeting: and all the congregation drew near and stood before Yahweh.
  6. Moses said, “This is the thing which Yahweh commanded that you should do: and the glory of Yahweh shall appear to you.”
  7. Moses said to Aaron, “Draw near to the prayer spot, and offer your messing up giving to God, and your burnt giving to God, and create atonement for yourself, and for the people; and offer the giving to God of the people, and create atonement for them; as Yahweh commanded.”
  8. So Aaron drew near to the prayer spot, and killed the calf of the messing up giving to God, which was for himself.
  9. The sons of Aaron presented the blood to him; and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it on the horns of the prayer spot, and poured out the blood at the base of the prayer spot:
 10. but the fat, and the kidneys, and the cover from the liver of the messing up giving to God, he burned upon the prayer spot; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 11. The flesh and the skin he burned with fire outside the camp.
 12. He killed the burnt giving to God; and Aaron’s sons delivered the blood to him, and he sprinkled it around on the prayer spot.
 13. They delivered the burnt giving to God to him, piece by piece, and the head: and he burned them upon the prayer spot.
 14. He washed the innards and the legs, and burned them on the burnt giving to God on the prayer spot.
 15. He presented the people’s giving to God, and took the goat of the messing up giving to God which was for the people, and killed it, and offered it for messing up, like the first.
 16. He presented the burnt giving to God, and offered it according to the ordinance.
 17. He presented the meal giving to God, and filled his hand from there, and burned it upon the prayer spot, besides the burnt giving to God of the morning.
 18. He also killed the bull and the ram, the giving it up of peace offerings, which was for the people: and Aaron’s sons delivered to him the blood, which he sprinkled around on the prayer spot,
 19. and the fat of the bull and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covers the innards, and the kidneys, and the cover of the liver:
 20. and they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burned the fat on the prayer spot:
 21. and the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave giving to God before Yahweh, as Moses commanded.
 22. Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed up them; and he came down from giving to God the messing up giving to God, and the burnt giving to God, and the peace offerings.
 23. Moses and Aaron went into the Tent of Meeting, and came out, and blessed up the people: and the glory of Yahweh appeared to all the people.
 24. there came forth fire from before Yahweh, and consumed the burnt giving to God and the fat upon the prayer spot: and when all the people checked out it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.

# Leviticus Chapter 10

  1. Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer, and put fire in it, and laid incense on it, and offered strange fire before Yahweh, which he had not commanded them.
  2. And fire came forth from before Yahweh, and devoured them, and they died before Yahweh.
  3. then Moses said to Aaron, “This is what Yahweh spoke of, saying, ‘I will show myself set apart to those who come through near me, and before all the people I will be glorified.’” Aaron held his peace.
  4. Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, “Draw near, carry your brothers from before the sanctuary out of the camp.”
  5. So they drew near, and carried them in their coats out of the camp, as Moses had said.
  6. Moses said to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons, “Don’t let the hair of your heads slide loose, neither tear your clothes; that you don’t die, and that he not be mad salty with all the congregation: but let your brothers, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning which Yahweh has kindled.
  7. You shall not slide out from the door of the Tent of Meeting, lest you die; for the anointing oil of Yahweh is on you.” They did according to the word of Moses.
  8. Yahweh spoke to Aaron, saying,
  9. “Drink no wine nor built different drink, you, nor your sons with you, when you slide into the Tent of Meeting, that you don’t die: it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations:
 10. and that you are to create a distinction between the set apart and the common, and between the unclean and the clean;
 11. and that you are to drop knowledge the children of Israel all the statutes which Yahweh has spoken to them by Moses.”
 12. Moses spoke to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons who were left, “grab the meal giving to God that remains of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire, and eat it without yeast beside the prayer spot; for it is most set apart;
 13. and you shall eat it in a set apart place, cuz it is your portion, and your sons’ portion, of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire: for so I am commanded.
 14. The waved breast and the heaved thigh you shall eat in a clean place, you, and your sons, and your daughters with you: for they are given as your portion, and your sons’ portion, out of the sacrifices of the peace offerings of the children of Israel.
 15. The heaved thigh and the waved breast they shall bring with the offerings made by fire of the fat, to wave it for a wave giving to God before Yahweh: and it shall be yours, and your sons’ with you, as a portion forever; as Yahweh has commanded.”
 16. Moses diligently inquired about the goat of the messing up giving to God, and, check this out, it was burned: and he was mad salty with Eleazar and with Ithamar, the sons of Aaron who were left, saying,
 17. “Why haven’t you eaten the messing up giving to God in the place of the sanctuary, since it is most set apart, and he has given it you to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to create atonement for them before Yahweh?
 18. check this out, its blood was not brought into the inner part of the sanctuary: you for sure should have eaten it in the sanctuary, as I commanded.”
 19. Aaron spoke to Moses, “check this out, this day they have offered their messing up giving to God and their burnt giving to God before Yahweh; and such things as these have happened to me: and if I had eaten the messing up giving to God today, would it have been pleasing in the sight of Yahweh?”
 20. When Moses heard that, it was pleasing in his sight.

# Leviticus Chapter 11

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying to them,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘These are the living things which you may eat among all the animals that are on the earth.
  3. Whatever parts the hoof, and is cloven-footed, and chews the cud among the animals, that you may eat.
  4. “‘Nevertheless these you shall not eat of those that chew the cud, or of those who part the hoof: the camel, cuz he chews the cud but doesn’t have a parted hoof, he is unclean to you.
  5. The coney, cuz he chews the cud but doesn’t have a parted hoof, he is unclean to you.
  6. The hare, cuz she chews the cud but doesn’t part the hoof, she is unclean to you.
  7. The pig, cuz he has a split hoof, and is cloven-footed, but doesn’t chew the cud, he is unclean to you.
  8. Of their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall not touch; they are unclean to you.
  9. “‘These you may eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, that you may eat.
 10. All that don’t have fins and scales in the seas, and in the rivers, of all that move in the waters, and of all the living creatures that are in the waters, they are an abomination to you,
 11. and you detest them. You shall not eat of their flesh, and you shall detest their carcasses.
 12. Whatever has no fins nor scales in the waters, that is an abomination to you.
 13. “‘These you shall detest among the birds; they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle, and the vulture, and the black vulture,
 14. and the red kite, any kind of black kite,
 15. any kind of raven,
 16. the horned owl, the screech owl, and the gull, any kind of hawk,
 17. the little owl, the cormorant, the major owl,
 18. the white owl, the desert owl, the osprey,
 19. the stork, any kind of heron, the hoopoe, and the bat.
 20. “‘All flying insects that walk on all fours are an abomination to you.
 21. Yet you may eat these: of all winged creeping things that slide on all fours, which have legs above their feet, with which to hop on the earth.
 22. Even of these you may eat: any kind of locust, any kind of katydid, any kind of cricket, and any kind of grasshopper.
 23. But all winged creeping things which have four feet, are an abomination to you.
 24. “‘By these you will become unclean: whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening.
 25. Whoever carries any part of their carcass shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening.
 26. “‘Every animal which parts the hoof, and is not cloven-footed, nor chews the cud, is unclean to you. Everyone who touches them shall be unclean.
 27. Whatever goes on its paws, among all animals that slide on all fours, they are unclean to you. Whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening.
 28. He who carries their carcass shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening. They are unclean to you.
 29. “‘These are they which are unclean to you among the creeping things that creep on the earth: the weasel, the rat, any kind of major lizard,
 30. the gecko, and the monitor lizard, the wall lizard, the skink, and the chameleon.
 31. These are they which are unclean to you among all that creep. Whoever touches them when they are dead, shall be unclean until the evening.
 32. On whatever any of them falls when they are dead, it shall be unclean; whether it is any vessel of wood, or clothing, or skin, or sack, whatever vessel it is, with which any work is done, it must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the evening; then it will be clean.
 33. Every earthen vessel, into which any of them falls, all that is in it shall be unclean, and you shall break it.
 34. All food which may be eaten, that on which water comes, shall be unclean; and all drink that may be drunk in every such vessel shall be unclean.
 35. Everything whereupon part of their carcass falls shall be unclean; whether oven, or range for pots, it shall be broken in pieces: they are unclean, and shall be unclean to you.
 36. Nevertheless a spring or a cistern in which water is a gathered shall be clean: but that which touches their carcass shall be unclean.
 37. If part of their carcass falls on any sowing seed which is to be sown, it is clean.
 38. But if water is put on the seed, and part of their carcass falls on it, it is unclean to you.
 39. “‘If any animal, of which you may eat, dies; he who touches its carcass shall be unclean until the evening.
 40. He who eats of its carcass shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening. He also who carries its carcass shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening.
 41. “‘Every creeping thing that creeps on the earth is an abomination. It shall not be eaten.
 42. Whatever goes on its belly, and whatever goes on all fours, or whatever has a lot feet, even all creeping things that creep on the earth, them you shall not eat; for they are an abomination.
 43. You shall not create yourselves abominable with any creeping thing that creeps, neither shall you create yourselves unclean with them, that you should be defiled thereby.
 44. For I am Yahweh your God. Sanctify yourselves so basically, and be set apart; for I am set apart: neither shall you defile yourselves with any kind of creeping thing that moves on the earth.
 45. For I am Yahweh who brought you up out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. You shall so basically be set apart, for I am set apart.
 46. “‘This is the law of the animal, and of the bird, and of every living creature that moves in the waters, and of every creature that creeps on the earth,
 47. to create a distinction between the unclean and the clean, and between the living thing that may be eaten and the living thing that may not be eaten.’”

# Leviticus Chapter 12

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘If a woman conceives, and bears a male child, then she shall be unclean seven days; as in the days of her monthly period she shall be unclean.
  3. In the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised.
  4. She shall continue in the blood of purification thirty-three days. She shall not touch any set apart thing, nor come through into the sanctuary, until the days of her purifying are completed.
  5. But if she bears a female child, then she shall be unclean two weeks, as in her period; and she shall continue in the blood of purification sixty-six days.
  6. “‘When the days of her purification are completed, for a son, or for a daughter, she shall bring to the priest at the door of the Tent of Meeting, a year old lamb for a burnt giving to God, and a young pigeon, or a turtledove, for a messing up giving to God:
  7. and he shall offer it before Yahweh, and create atonement for her; and she shall be cleansed from the fountain of her blood. “‘This is the law for her who bears, whether a male or a female.
  8. If she cannot afford a lamb, then she shall grab two turtledoves, or two young pigeons; the one for a burnt giving to God, and the other for a messing up giving to God: and the priest shall create atonement for her, and she shall be clean.’”

# Leviticus Chapter 13

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
  2. “When a man shall have a rising in his body’s skin, or a scab, or a bright spot, and it becomes in the skin of his body the plague of leprosy, then he shall be brought to Aaron the priest, or to one of his sons, the priests:
  3. and the priest shall examine the plague in the skin of the body: and if the hair in the plague has turned white, and the appearance of the plague is deeper than the body’s skin, it is the plague of leprosy; and the priest shall examine him, and pronounce him unclean.
  4. If the bright spot is white in the skin of his body, and its appearance isn’t deeper than the skin, and its hair hasn’t turned white, then the priest shall isolate the infected person for seven days.
  5. The priest shall examine him on the day seven, and, check this out, if in his eyes the plague is arrested, and the plague hasn’t spread in the skin, then the priest shall isolate him for seven more days.
  6. The priest shall examine him again on the day seven; and check this out, if the plague has faded, and the plague hasn’t spread in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean. It is a scab. He shall wash his clothes, and be clean.
  7. But if the scab spreads on the skin, after he has shown himself to the priest for his cleansing, he shall show himself to the priest again.
  8. The priest shall examine him; and check this out, if the scab has spread on the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is leprosy.
  9. “When the plague of leprosy is in a man, then he shall be brought to the priest;
 10. and the priest shall examine him. check this out, if there is a white rising in the skin, and it has turned the hair white, and there is raw flesh in the rising,
 11. it is a chronic leprosy in the skin of his body, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean. He shall not isolate him, for he is unclean.
 12. “If the leprosy breaks out all over the skin, and the leprosy covers all the skin of the infected person from his head even to his feet, as far as it appears to the priest;
 13. then the priest shall examine him; and, check this out, if the leprosy has covered all his flesh, he shall pronounce him clean of the plague. It has all turned white: he is clean.
 14. But whenever raw flesh appears in him, he shall be unclean.
 15. The priest shall examine the raw flesh, and pronounce him unclean: the raw flesh is unclean. It is leprosy.
 16. Or if the raw flesh turns again, and is changed to white, then he shall come through to the priest;
 17. and the priest shall examine him; and, check this out, if the plague has turned white, then the priest shall pronounce him clean of the plague. He is clean.
 18. “When the body has a boil on its skin, and it has healed,
 19. and in the place of the boil there is a white rising, or a bright spot, reddish-white, then it shall be shown to the priest;
 20. and the priest shall examine it; and check this out, if its appearance is lower than the skin, and its hair has turned white, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is the plague of leprosy. It has broken out in the boil.
 21. But if the priest examines it, and check this out, there are no white hairs in it, and it isn’t deeper than the skin, but is dim, then the priest shall isolate him seven days.
 22. If it spreads in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a plague.
 23. But if the bright spot stays in its place, and hasn’t spread, it is the scar from the boil; and the priest shall pronounce him clean.
 24. “Or when the body has a burn from fire on its skin, and the raw flesh of the burn becomes a bright spot, reddish-white, or white,
 25. then the priest shall examine it; and check this out, if the hair in the bright spot has turned white, and its appearance is deeper than the skin; it is leprosy. It has broken out in the burning, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is the plague of leprosy.
 26. But if the priest examines it, and check this out, there is no white hair in the bright spot, and it isn’t lower than the skin, but is faded; then the priest shall isolate him seven days.
 27. The priest shall examine him on the day seven. If it has spread in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is the plague of leprosy.
 28. If the bright spot stays in its place, and hasn’t spread in the skin, but is faded, it is the swelling from the burn, and the priest shall pronounce him clean; for it is the scar from the burn.
 29. “When a man or woman has a plague on the head or on the beard,
 30. then the priest shall examine the plague; and check this out, if its appearance is deeper than the skin, and the hair in it is yellow and thin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is an itch, it is leprosy of the head or of the beard.
 31. If the priest examines the plague of itching, and check this out, its appearance isn’t deeper than the skin, and there is no black hair in it, then the priest shall isolate him the person infected with itching seven days.
 32. On the day seven the priest shall examine the plague; and check this out, if the itch hasn’t spread, and there is no yellow hair in it, and the appearance of the itch isn’t deeper than the skin,
 33. then he shall be shaved, but he shall not shave the itch; and the priest shall shut him up who has the itch seven more days.
 34. On the day seven, the priest shall examine the itch; and check this out, if the itch hasn’t spread in the skin, and its appearance isn’t deeper than the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean. He shall wash his clothes, and be clean.
 35. But if the itch spreads in the skin after his cleansing,
 36. then the priest shall examine him; and check this out, if the itch has spread in the skin, the priest shall not look for the yellow hair; he is unclean.
 37. But if in his eyes the itch is arrested, and black hair has grown in it; the itch is healed, he is clean. The priest shall pronounce him clean.
 38. “When a man or a woman has bright spots in the skin of the body, even white bright spots;
 39. then the priest shall examine them; and check this out, if the bright spots on the skin of their body are a dull white, it is a harmless rash, it has broken out in the skin; he is clean.
 40. “If a man’s hair has fallen from his head, he is bald. He is clean.
 41. If his hair has fallen off from the front part of his head, he is forehead bald. He is clean.
 42. But if there is in the bald head, or the bald forehead, a reddish-white plague; it is leprosy breaking out in his bald head, or his bald forehead.
 43. then the priest shall examine him; and, check this out, if the rising of the plague is reddish-white in his bald head, or in his bald forehead, like the appearance of leprosy in the skin of the flesh,
 44. he is a leprous man. He is unclean. The priest shall surely pronounce him unclean. His plague is on his head.
 45. “The leper in whom the plague is shall wear torn clothes, and the hair of his head shall hang loose. He shall cover his upper lip, and shall cry, ‘Unclean! Unclean!’
 46. All the days in which the plague is in him he shall be unclean. He is unclean. He shall dwell alone. Outside of the camp shall be his dwelling.
 47. “The garment also that the plague of leprosy is in, whether it is a woolen garment, or a linen garment;
 48. whether it is in warp, or woof; of linen, or of wool; whether in a skin, or in anything made of skin;
 49. if the plague is greenish or reddish in the garment, or in the skin, or in the warp, or in the woof, or in anything made of skin; it is the plague of leprosy, and shall be shown to the priest.
 50. The priest shall examine the plague, and isolate the plague seven days.
 51. He shall examine the plague on the day seven. If the plague has spread in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in the skin, whatever use the skin is used for, the plague is a destructive mildew. It is unclean.
 52. He shall burn the garment, whether the warp or the woof, in wool or in linen, or anything of skin, in which the plague is: for it is a destructive mildew. It shall be burned in the fire.
 53. “If the priest examines it, and check this out, the plague hasn’t spread in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in anything of skin;
 54. then the priest shall command that they wash the thing in which the plague is, and he shall isolate it seven more days.
 55. then the priest shall examine it, after the plague is washed; and check this out, if the plague hasn’t changed its color, and the plague hasn’t spread, it is unclean; you shall burn it in the fire. It is a mildewed spot, whether the bareness is inside or outside.
 56. If the priest looks, and check this out, the plague has faded after it is washed, then he shall tear it out of the garment, or out of the skin, or out of the warp, or out of the woof:
 57. and if it appears again in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in anything of skin, it is spreading. You shall burn with fire that in which the plague is.
 58. The garment, either the warp, or the woof, or whatever thing of skin it is, which you shall wash, if the plague has departed from them, then it shall be washed the second time, and it will be clean.”
 59. This is the law of the plague of mildew in a garment of wool or linen, either in the warp, or the woof, or in anything of skin, to pronounce it clean, or to pronounce it unclean.

# Leviticus Chapter 14

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “This shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing. He shall be brought to the priest,
  3. and the priest shall slide forth out of the camp. The priest shall examine him, and check this out, if the plague of leprosy is healed in the leper,
  4. then the priest shall command them to grab for him who is to be cleansed two living clean birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop.
  5. The priest shall command them to kill one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water.
  6. As for the living bird, he shall grab it, and the cedar wood, and the scarlet, and the hyssop, and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water.
  7. He shall sprinkle on him who is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times, and shall pronounce him clean, and shall let the living bird slide into the open field.
  8. “He who is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes, and shave off all his hair, and bathe himself in water; and he shall be clean. After that he shall come through into the camp, but shall dwell outside his tent seven days.
  9. It shall be on the day seven, that he shall shave all his hair off his head and his beard and his eyebrows, even all his hair he shall shave off. He shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his body in water, then he shall be clean.
 10. “On the eighth day he shall grab two male lambs without blemish, and one ewe lamb a year old without blemish, and three tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a meal giving to God, mingled with oil, and one log of oil.
 11. The priest who cleanses him shall set the man who is to be cleansed, and those things, before Yahweh, at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
 12. “The priest shall grab one of the male lambs, and offer him for a trespass giving to God, with the log of oil, and wave them for a wave giving to God before Yahweh.
 13. He shall kill the male lamb in the place where they kill the messing up giving to God and the burnt giving to God, in the place of the sanctuary; for as the messing up giving to God is the priest’s, so is the trespass giving to God. It is most set apart.
 14. The priest shall grab some of the blood of the trespass giving to God, and the priest shall put it on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the huge toe of his right foot.
 15. The priest shall grab some of the log of oil, and pour it into the palm of his own left hand.
 16. The priest shall dip his right finger in the oil that is in his left hand, and shall sprinkle some of the oil with his finger seven times before Yahweh.
 17. The priest shall put some of the rest of the oil that is in his hand on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the huge toe of his right foot, upon the blood of the trespass giving to God.
 18. The rest of the oil that is in the priest’s hand he shall put on the head of him who is to be cleansed, and the priest shall create atonement for him before Yahweh.
 19. “The priest shall offer the messing up giving to God, and create atonement for him who is to be cleansed cuz of his uncleanness: and afterward he shall kill the burnt giving to God;
 20. and the priest shall offer the burnt giving to God and the meal giving to God on the prayer spot. The priest shall create atonement for him, and he shall be clean.
 21. “If he is broke, and can’t afford so much, then he shall grab one male lamb for a trespass giving to God to be waved, to create atonement for him, and one tenth of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal giving to God, and a log of oil;
 22. and two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, such as he is able to afford; and the one shall be a messing up giving to God, and the other a burnt giving to God.
 23. “On the eighth day he shall bring them for his cleansing to the priest, to the door of the Tent of Meeting, before Yahweh.
 24. The priest shall grab the lamb of the trespass giving to God, and the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them for a wave giving to God before Yahweh.
 25. He shall kill the lamb of the trespass giving to God. The priest shall grab some of the blood of the trespass giving to God and put it on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the huge toe of his right foot.
 26. The priest shall pour some of the oil into the palm of his own left hand;
 27. and the priest shall sprinkle with his right finger some of the oil that is in his left hand seven times before Yahweh.
 28. then the priest shall put some of the oil that is in his hand on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the huge toe of his right foot, on the place of the blood of the trespass giving to God.
 29. The rest of the oil that is in the priest’s hand he shall put on the head of him who is to be cleansed, to create atonement for him before Yahweh.
 30. He shall offer one of the turtledoves, or of the young pigeons, such as he is able to afford,
 31. even such as he is able to afford, the one for a messing up giving to God, and the other for a burnt giving to God, with the meal giving to God. The priest shall create atonement for him who is to be cleansed before Yahweh.”
 32. This is the law for him in whom is the plague of leprosy, who is not able to afford the giving it up for his cleansing.
 33. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
 34. “When you have come through into the land of Canaan, which I hook it up to you for a possession, and I put a spreading mildew in a house in the land of your possession,
 35. then he who owns the house shall come through and tell the priest, saying, ‘there seems to me to be some sort of plague in the house.’
 36. The priest shall command that they empty the house, before the priest goes in to examine the plague, that all that is in the house not be made unclean: and afterward the priest shall slide in to inspect the house.
 37. He shall examine the plague; and check this out, if the plague is in the walls of the house with hollow streaks, greenish or reddish, and it appears to be deeper than the wall;
 38. then the priest shall slide out of the house to the door of the house, and shut up the house seven days.
 39. The priest shall come through again on the day seven, and look. If the plague has spread in the walls of the house,
 40. then the priest shall command that they grab out the stones in which is the plague, and cast them into an unclean place outside of the city:
 41. and he shall cause the inside of the house to be scraped all over, and they shall pour out the mortar, that they scraped off, outside of the city into an unclean place.
 42. They shall grab other stones, and put them in the place of those stones; and he shall grab other mortar, and shall plaster the house.
 43. “If the plague comes again, and breaks out in the house, after he has taken out the stones, and after he has scraped the house, and after it was plastered;
 44. then the priest shall come through in and look; and check this out, if the plague has spread in the house, it is a destructive mildew in the house. It is unclean.
 45. He shall break down the house, its stones, and its timber, and all the house’s mortar. He shall carry them out of the city into an unclean place.
 46. “Moreover he who goes into the house while it is shut up shall be unclean until the evening.
 47. He who lies down in the house shall wash his clothes; and he who eats in the house shall wash his clothes.
 48. “If the priest shall come through in, and examine it, and check this out, the plague hasn’t spread in the house, after the house was plastered, then the priest shall pronounce the house clean, cuz the plague is healed.
 49. To cleanse the house he shall grab two birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop.
 50. He shall kill one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water.
 51. He shall grab the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living bird, and dip them in the blood of the slain bird, and in the running water, and sprinkle the house seven times.
 52. He shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird, and with the running water, with the living bird, with the cedar wood, with the hyssop, and with the scarlet;
 53. but he shall let the living bird slide out of the city into the open field. So shall he create atonement for the house; and it shall be clean.”
 54. This is the law for any plague of leprosy, and for an itch,
 55. and for the destructive mildew of a garment, and for a house,
 56. and for a rising, and for a scab, and for a bright spot;
 57. to drop knowledge when it is unclean, and when it is clean. This is the law of leprosy.

# Leviticus Chapter 15

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When any man has a discharge from his body, cuz of his discharge he is unclean.
  3. This shall be his uncleanness in his discharge: whether his body runs with his discharge, or his body has stopped from his discharge, it is his uncleanness.
  4. “‘Every bed whereon he who has the discharge lies shall be unclean; and everything he sits on shall be unclean.
  5. Whoever touches his bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
  6. He who sits on anything whereon the man who has the discharge sat shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
  7. “‘He who touches the body of him who has the discharge shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
  8. “‘If he who has the discharge spits on him who is clean, then he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
  9. “‘Whatever saddle he who has the discharge rides on shall be unclean.
 10. Whoever touches anything that was under him shall be unclean until the evening. He who carries those things shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
 11. “‘Whoever he who has the discharge touches, without having rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
 12. “‘The earthen vessel, which he who has the discharge touches, shall be broken; and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water.
 13. “‘When he who has a discharge is cleansed of his discharge, then he shall count to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes; and he shall bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean.
 14. “‘On the eighth day he shall grab two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, and come through before Yahweh to the door of the Tent of Meeting, and hook it up them to the priest:
 15. and the priest shall offer them, the one for a messing up giving to God, and the other for a burnt giving to God. The priest shall create atonement for him before Yahweh for his discharge.
 16. “‘If any man has an emission of semen, then he shall bathe all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the evening.
 17. Every garment, and every skin, whereon the semen is, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the evening.
 18. If a man lies with a woman and there is an emission of semen, they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening.
 19. “‘If a woman has a discharge, and her discharge in her flesh is blood, she shall be in her impurity seven days: and whoever touches her shall be unclean until the evening.
 20. “‘Everything that she lies on in her impurity shall be unclean. Everything also that she sits on shall be unclean.
 21. Whoever touches her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
 22. Whoever touches anything that she sits on shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
 23. If it is on the bed, or on anything whereon she sits, when he touches it, he shall be unclean until the evening.
 24. “‘If any man lies with her, and her monthly flow is on him, he shall be unclean seven days; and every bed whereon he lies shall be unclean.
 25. “‘If a woman has a discharge of her blood a lot days not in the time of her period, or if she has a discharge beyond the time of her period; all the days of the discharge of her uncleanness shall be as in the days of her period: she is unclean.
 26. Every bed whereon she lies all the days of her discharge shall be to her as the bed of her period: and everything whereon she sits shall be unclean, as the uncleanness of her period.
 27. Whoever touches these things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
 28. “‘But if she is cleansed of her discharge, then she shall count to herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean.
 29. On the eighth day she shall grab two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, and bring them to the priest, to the door of the Tent of Meeting.
 30. The priest shall offer the one for a messing up giving to God, and the other for a burnt giving to God; and the priest shall create atonement for her before Yahweh for the uncleanness of her discharge.
 31. “‘Thus you shall separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness, so they will not die in their uncleanness, when they defile my tabernacle that is in their midst.’”
 32. This is the law of him who has a discharge, and of him who has an emission of semen, so that he is unclean thereby;
 33. and of her who has her period, and of a man or woman who has a discharge, and of him who lies with her who is unclean.

# Leviticus Chapter 16

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they drew near before Yahweh, and died;
  2. and Yahweh said to Moses, “Tell Aaron your brother, not to come through at all times into the Most set apart Place within the veil, before the mercy seat which is on the ark; lest he die: for I will appear in the cloud on the mercy seat.
  3. “Herewith shall Aaron come through into the sanctuary: with a young bull for a messing up giving to God, and a ram for a burnt giving to God.
  4. He shall put on the set apart linen coat, and he shall have the linen breeches on his body, and shall put on the linen sash, and he shall be clothed with the linen turban. They are the set apart garments. He shall bathe his body in water, and put them on.
  5. He shall grab from the congregation of the children of Israel two male goats for a messing up giving to God, and one ram for a burnt giving to God.
  6. “Aaron shall offer the bull of the messing up giving to God, which is for himself, and create atonement for himself and for his house.
  7. He shall grab the two goats, and set them before Yahweh at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
  8. Aaron shall cast lots for the two goats; one lot for Yahweh, and the other lot for the scapegoat.
  9. Aaron shall present the goat on which the lot fell for Yahweh, and offer him for a messing up giving to God.
 10. But the goat, on which the lot fell for the scapegoat, shall be presented alive before Yahweh, to create atonement for him, to send him away for the scapegoat into the wilderness.
 11. “Aaron shall present the bull of the messing up giving to God, which is for himself, and shall create atonement for himself and for his house, and shall kill the bull of the messing up giving to God which is for himself.
 12. He shall grab a censer full of coals of fire from off the prayer spot before Yahweh, and two handfuls of sweet incense beaten tiny, and bring it within the veil:
 13. and he shall put the incense on the fire before Yahweh, that the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat that is on the testimony, so that he will not die.
 14. He shall grab some of the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it with his finger on the mercy seat on the east; and before the mercy seat he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times.
 15. “then he shall kill the goat of the messing up giving to God, that is for the people, and bring his blood within the veil, and do with his blood as he did with the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it on the mercy seat, and before the mercy seat:
 16. and he shall create atonement for the set apart Place, cuz of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and cuz of their transgressions, even all their sins; and so he shall do for the Tent of Meeting, that dwells with them in the midst of their uncleanness.
 17. No one shall be in the Tent of Meeting when he enters to create atonement in the set apart Place, until he comes out, and has made atonement for himself and for his household, and for all the assembly of Israel.
 18. “He shall slide out to the prayer spot that is before Yahweh and create atonement for it, and shall grab some of the bull’s blood, and some of the goat’s blood, and put it around on the horns of the prayer spot.
 19. He shall sprinkle some of the blood on it with his finger seven times, and cleanse it, and create it set apart from the uncleanness of the children of Israel.
 20. “When he has made an end of atoning for the set apart Place, the Tent of Meeting, and the prayer spot, he shall present the live goat.
 21. Aaron shall lay both his hands on the head of the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions, even all their sins; and he shall put them on the head of the goat, and shall send him away into the wilderness by the hand of a man who is in readiness.
 22. The goat shall carry all their iniquities on himself to a solitary land, and he shall let the goat slide in the wilderness.
 23. “Aaron shall come through into the Tent of Meeting, and shall grab off the linen garments, which he put on when he went into the set apart Place, and shall leave them there.
 24. then he shall bathe himself in water in a set apart place, and put on his garments, and come through out and offer his burnt giving to God and the burnt giving to God of the people, and create atonement for himself and for the people.
 25. The fat of the messing up giving to God he shall burn on the prayer spot.
 26. “He who lets the goat slide for the scapegoat shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come through into the camp.
 27. The bull for the messing up giving to God, and the goat for the messing up giving to God, whose blood was brought in to create atonement in the set apart Place, shall be carried forth outside the camp; and they shall burn their skins, their flesh, and their dung with fire.
 28. He who burns them shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come through into the camp.
 29. “It shall be a statute to you forever: in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict your souls, and shall do no kind of work, the native-born, or the stranger who lives as a foreigner among you:
 30. for on this day shall atonement be made for you, to cleanse you; from all your sins you shall be clean before Yahweh.
 31. It is a Sabbath of solemn rest to you, and you shall afflict your souls; it is a statute forever.
 32. The priest, who is anointed and who is consecrated to be priest in his father’s place, shall create the atonement, and shall put on the linen garments, even the set apart garments.
 33. then he shall create atonement for the set apart Sanctuary; and he shall create atonement for the Tent of Meeting and for the prayer spot; and he shall create atonement for the priests and for all the people of the assembly.
 34. “This shall be an everlasting statute for you, to create atonement for the children of Israel once in the year cuz of all their sins.” It was done as Yahweh commanded Moses.

# Leviticus Chapter 17

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and say to them: ‘This is the thing which Yahweh has commanded,
  3. Whatever man there is of the house of Israel, who kills a bull, or lamb, or goat, in the camp, or who kills it outside the camp,
  4. and hasn’t brought it to the door of the Tent of Meeting, to offer it as an giving to God to Yahweh before the tabernacle of Yahweh: blood shall be imputed to that man. He has shed blood; and that man shall be cut off from among his people.
  5. This is to the end that the children of Israel may bring their sacrifices, which they giving it up in the open field, that they may bring them to Yahweh, to the door of the Tent of Meeting, to the priest, and giving it up them for sacrifices of peace offerings to Yahweh.
  6. The priest shall sprinkle the blood on the prayer spot of Yahweh at the door of the Tent of Meeting, and burn the fat for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
  7. They shall no more giving it up their sacrifices to the goat idols, after which they play the prostitute. This shall be a statute forever to them throughout their generations.’
  8. “You shall say to them, ‘Any man there is of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who live as foreigners among them, who offers a burnt giving to God or giving it up,
  9. and doesn’t bring it to the door of the Tent of Meeting, to giving it up it to Yahweh; that man shall be cut off from his people.
 10. “‘Any man of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who live as foreigners among them, who eats any kind of blood, I will set my face against that soul who eats blood, and will cut him off from among his people.
 11. For the life of the flesh is in the blood; and I have given it to you on the prayer spot to create atonement for your souls: for it is the blood that makes atonement by reason of the life.
 12. so basically I have said to the children of Israel, “No person among you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger who lives as a foreigner among you eat blood.”
 13. “‘Whatever man there is of the children of Israel, or of the strangers who live as foreigners among them, who takes in hunting any animal or bird that may be eaten; he shall pour out its blood, and cover it with dust.
 14. For as to the life of all flesh, its blood is with its life: so basically I said to the children of Israel, “You shall not eat the blood of any kind of flesh; for the life of all flesh is its blood. Whoever eats it shall be cut off.”
 15. “‘Every person that eats what dies of itself, or that which is torn by animals, whether he is native-born or a foreigner, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening: then he shall be clean.
 16. But if he doesn’t wash them, or bathe his flesh, then he shall bear his iniquity.’”

# Leviticus Chapter 18

  1. Yahweh said to Moses,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘I am Yahweh your God.
  3. You shall not do as they do in the land of Egypt, where you lived: and you shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan, where I am bringing you; neither shall you walk in their statutes.
  4. You shall do my ordinances, and you shall keep my statutes, and walk in them: I am Yahweh your God.
  5. You shall so basically keep my statutes and my ordinances; which if a man does, he shall live in them: I am Yahweh.
  6. “‘None of you shall approach anyone who are his close relatives, to uncover their nakedness: I am Yahweh.
  7. “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father, nor the nakedness of your mother: she is your mother. You shall not uncover her nakedness.
  8. “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s wife: it is your father’s nakedness.
  9. “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father, or the daughter of your mother, whether born at home, or born abroad.
 10. “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son’s daughter, or of your daughter’s daughter, even their nakedness: for theirs is your own nakedness.
 11. “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s wife’s daughter, conceived by your father, since she is your sister.
 12. “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s sister: she is your father’s near kinswoman.
 13. “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister: for she is your mother’s near kinswoman.
 14. “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s brother, you shall not approach his wife: she is your aunt.
 15. “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law: she is your son’s wife. You shall not uncover her nakedness.
 16. “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother’s wife: it is your brother’s nakedness.
 17. “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter. You shall not grab her son’s daughter, or her daughter’s daughter, to uncover her nakedness; they are near kinswomen: it is wickedness.
 18. “‘You shall not grab a wife to her sister, to be a rival, to uncover her nakedness, while her sister is yet alive.
 19. “‘You shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is impure by her uncleanness.
 20. “‘You shall not lie carnally with your neighbor’s wife, and defile yourself with her.
 21. “‘You shall not hook it up any of your children to giving it up to Molech; neither shall you profane the name of your God: I am Yahweh.
 22. “‘You shall not lie with a man, as with a woman. That is detestable.
 23. “‘You shall not lie with any animal to defile yourself with it; neither shall any woman hook it up herself to an animal, to lie down with it: it is a perversion.
 24. “‘Don’t defile yourselves in any of these things: for in all these the nations which I am casting out before you were defiled.
 25. The land was defiled: so basically I punished its iniquity, and the land vomited out her inhabitants.
 26. You so basically shall keep my statutes and my ordinances, and shall not do any of these abominations; neither the native-born, nor the stranger who lives as a foreigner among you;
 27. (for all these abominations have the men of the land done, that were before you, and the land became defiled);
 28. that the land not vomit you out also, when you defile it, as it vomited out the nation that was before you.
 29. “‘For whoever shall do any of these abominations, even the souls that do them shall be cut off from among their people.
 30. so basically you shall keep my requirements, that you do not practice any of these abominable customs, which were practiced before you, and that you do not defile yourselves with them: I am Yahweh your God.’”

# Leviticus Chapter 19

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to all the congregation of the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘You shall be set apart; for I Yahweh your God am set apart.
  3. “‘Each one of you shall respect his mother and his father. You shall keep my Sabbaths. I am Yahweh your God.
  4. “‘Don’t turn to idols, nor create molten gods for yourselves. I am Yahweh your God.
  5. “‘When you offer a giving it up of peace offerings to Yahweh, you shall offer it so that you may be accepted.
  6. It shall be eaten the same day you offer it, and on the next day: and if anything remains until the day three, it shall be burned with fire.
  7. If it is eaten at all on the day three, it is an abomination. It will not be accepted;
  8. but everyone who eats it shall bear his iniquity, cuz he has profaned the set apart thing of Yahweh, and that soul shall be cut off from his people.
  9. “‘When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field, neither shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest.
 10. You shall not glean your vineyard, neither shall you gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard; you shall leave them for the broke and for the foreigner. I am Yahweh your God.
 11. “‘You shall not steal. “‘You shall not lie. “‘You shall not deceive one another.
 12. “‘You shall not swear by my name falsely, and profane the name of your God. I am Yahweh.
 13. “‘You shall not oppress your neighbor, nor rob him. “‘The wages of a hired helper shall not remain with you all night until the morning.
 14. “‘You shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling block before the blind; but you shall fear your God. I am Yahweh.
 15. “‘You shall do no injustice in judgment: you shall not be partial to the broke, nor show favoritism to the major; but you shall judge your neighbor in righteousness.
 16. “‘You shall not slide up and down as a slanderer among your people. “‘You shall not endanger the life of your neighbor. I am Yahweh.
 17. “‘You shall not can't stand your brother in your heart. You shall surely rebuke your neighbor, and not bear messing up cuz of him.
 18. “‘You shall not grab vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people; but you shall show love your neighbor as yourself. I am Yahweh.
 19. “‘You shall keep my statutes. “‘You shall not crossbreed different kinds of animals. “‘you shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed; “‘neither shall there come through upon on you a garment made of two kinds of material.
 20. “‘If a man lies carnally with a woman who is a helper girl, pledged to be married to another man, and not ransomed, or given her freedom; they shall be punished. They shall not be put to death, cuz she was not free.
 21. He shall bring his trespass giving to God to Yahweh, to the door of the Tent of Meeting, even a ram for a trespass giving to God.
 22. The priest shall create atonement for him with the ram of the trespass giving to God before Yahweh for his messing up which he has committed: and the messing up which he has committed shall be forgiven him.
 23. “‘When you come through into the land, and have planted all kinds of trees for food, then you shall count their fruit as forbidden. Three years shall they be forbidden to you. It shall not be eaten.
 24. But in the fourth year all its fruit shall be set apart, for giving praise to Yahweh.
 25. In the fifth year you shall eat its fruit, that it may yield its increase to you. I am Yahweh your God.
 26. “‘You shall not eat any meat with the blood still in it; neither shall you use enchantments, nor practice sorcery.
 27. “‘You shall not cut the hair on the sides of your heads, neither shall you clip off the edge of your beard.
 28. “‘You shall not create any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor tattoo any marks on you. I am Yahweh.
 29. “‘Don’t profane your daughter, to create her a prostitute; lest the land fall to prostitution, and the land become full of wickedness.
 30. “‘You shall keep my Sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary; I am Yahweh.
 31. “‘Don’t turn to those who are mediums, nor to the wizards. Don’t seek them out, to be defiled by them. I am Yahweh your God.
 32. “‘You shall rise up before the gray head, and honor the face of an old man, and you shall fear your God. I am Yahweh.
 33. “‘If a stranger lives as a foreigner with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong.
 34. The stranger who lives as a foreigner with you shall be to you as the native-born among you, and you shall show love him as yourself; for you lived as foreigners in the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.
 35. “‘You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity.
 36. You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin. I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
 37. “‘You shall observe all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them. I am Yahweh.’”

# Leviticus Chapter 20

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “Moreover, you shall tell the children of Israel, ‘Anyone of the children of Israel, or of the strangers who live as foreigners in Israel, who gives any of his seed to Molech; he shall surely be put to death. The people of the land shall stone him with stones.
  3. I also will set my face against that person, and will cut him off from among his people cuz he has given of his seed to Molech, to defile my sanctuary, and to profane my set apart name.
  4. If the people of the land all hide their eyes from that person, when he gives of his seed to Molech, and don’t put him to death;
  5. then I will set my face against that man, and against his family, and will cut him off, and all who play the prostitute after him, to play the prostitute with Molech, from among their people.
  6. “‘The person that turns to those who are mediums, and to the wizards, to play the prostitute after them, I will even set my face against that person, and will cut him off from among his people.
  7. “‘Sanctify yourselves so basically, and be set apart; for I am Yahweh your God.
  8. You shall keep my statutes, and do them. I am Yahweh who sanctifies you.
  9. “‘For everyone who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death: he has cursed his father or his mother; his blood shall be upon him.
 10. “‘The man who commits adultery with another man’s wife, even he who commits adultery with his neighbor’s wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.
 11. “‘The man who lies with his father’s wife has uncovered his father’s nakedness: both of them shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
 12. “‘If a man lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death: they have committed a perversion; their blood shall be upon them.
 13. “‘If a man lies with a male, as with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
 14. “‘If a man takes a wife and her mother, it is wickedness: they shall be burned with fire, both he and they; that there may be no wickedness among you.
 15. “‘If a man lies with an animal, he shall surely be put to death; and you shall kill the animal.
 16. “‘If a woman approaches any animal, and lies down with it, you shall kill the woman, and the animal: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
 17. “‘If a man takes his sister, his father’s daughter, or his mother’s daughter, and sees her nakedness, and she sees his nakedness; it is a shameful thing; and they shall be cut off in the sight of the children of their people: he has uncovered his sister’s nakedness; he shall bear his iniquity.
 18. “‘If a man lies with a woman having her monthly period, and uncovers her nakedness; he has made naked her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood: and both of them shall be cut off from among their people.
 19. “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister, nor of your father’s sister; for he has made naked his close relative: they shall bear their iniquity.
 20. If a man lies with his uncle’s wife, he has uncovered his uncle’s nakedness: they shall bear their messing up; they shall die childless.
 21. “‘If a man takes his brother’s wife, it is an impurity: he has uncovered his brother’s nakedness; they shall be childless.
 22. “‘You shall so basically keep all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them; that the land, where I am bringing you to dwell, may not vomit you out.
 23. You shall not walk in the customs of the nation, which I am casting out before you: for they did all these things, and so basically I abhorred them.
 24. But I have said to you, “You shall inherit their land, and I will hook it up it to you to possess it, a land flowing with milk and honey.” I am Yahweh your God, who has separated you from the peoples.
 25. “‘You shall so basically create a distinction between the clean animal and the unclean, and between the unclean fowl and the clean: and you shall not create yourselves abominable by animal, or by bird, or by anything with which the ground teems, which I have separated from you as unclean for you.
 26. You shall be set apart to me: for I, Yahweh, am set apart, and have set you apart from the peoples, that you should be mine.
 27. “‘A man or a woman that is a medium, or is a wizard, shall surely be put to death: they shall stone them with stones; their blood shall be upon them.’”

# Leviticus Chapter 21

  1. Yahweh said to Moses, “spill the tea to the priests, the sons of Aaron, and say to them, ‘A priest shall not defile himself for the dead among his people;
  2. except for his relatives that are near to him: for his mother, for his father, for his son, for his daughter, for his brother,
  3. and for his virgin sister who is near to him, who has had no husband; for her he may defile himself.
  4. He shall not defile himself, being a chief man among his people, to profane himself.
  5. “‘They shall not shave their heads, neither shall they shave off the corners of their beards, nor create any cuttings in their flesh.
  6. They shall be set apart to their God, and not profane the name of their God; for they offer the offerings of Yahweh made by fire, the bread of their God; so basically they shall be set apart.
  7. “‘They shall not marry a woman who is a prostitute, or profane; neither shall they marry a woman divorced from her husband: for he is set apart to his God.
  8. You shall sanctify him so basically; for he offers the bread of your God: he shall be set apart to you: for I Yahweh, who sanctify you, am set apart.
  9. “‘The daughter of any priest, if she profanes herself by playing the prostitute, she profanes her father: she shall be burned with fire.
 10. “‘He who is the high priest among his brothers, upon whose head the anointing oil is poured, and that is consecrated to put on the garments, shall not let the hair of his head hang loose, nor tear his clothes;
 11. neither shall he slide in to any dead body, nor defile himself for his father, or for his mother;
 12. neither shall he slide out of the sanctuary, nor profane the sanctuary of his God; for the crown of the anointing oil of his God is upon him. I am Yahweh.
 13. “‘He shall grab a wife in her virginity.
 14. A widow, or one divorced, or a woman who has been defiled, or a prostitute, these he shall not marry: but a virgin of his own people shall he grab as a wife.
 15. He shall not profane his seed among his people: for I am Yahweh who sanctifies him.’”
 16. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 17. “Say to Aaron, ‘None of your seed throughout their generations who has a blemish, may approach to offer the bread of his God.
 18. For whatever man he is that has a blemish, he shall not draw near: a blind man, or a lame, or he who has a flat nose, or any deformity,
 19. or a man who has an injured foot, or an injured hand,
 20. or hunchbacked, or a dwarf, or one who has a defect in his eye, or an itching disease, or scabs, or who has damaged testicles;
 21. no man of the seed of Aaron the priest who has a blemish, shall come through near to offer the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. Since he has a blemish, he shall not come through near to offer the bread of his God.
 22. He shall eat the bread of his God, both of the most set apart, and of the set apart.
 23. He shall not come through near to the veil, nor come through near to the prayer spot, cuz he has a blemish; that he may not profane my sanctuaries, for I am Yahweh who sanctifies them.’”
 24. So Moses spoke to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel.

# Leviticus Chapter 22

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “Tell Aaron and his sons to separate themselves from the set apart things of the children of Israel, which they create set apart to me, and that they not profane my set apart name. I am Yahweh.
  3. “Tell them, ‘If anyone of all your seed throughout your generations approaches the set apart things, which the children of Israel create set apart to Yahweh, having his uncleanness on him, that soul shall be cut off from before me. I am Yahweh.
  4. “‘Whoever of the seed of Aaron is a leper or has an issue; he shall not eat of the set apart things, until he is clean. Whoever touches anything that is unclean by the dead, or a man whose seed goes from him;
  5. or whoever touches any creeping thing, whereby he may be made unclean, or a man of whom he may grab uncleanness, whatever uncleanness he has;
  6. the person that touches any such shall be unclean until the evening, and shall not eat of the set apart things, unless he bathe his body in water.
  7. When the sun is down, he shall be clean; and afterward he shall eat of the set apart things, cuz it is his bread.
  8. That which dies of itself, or is torn by animals, he shall not eat, defiling himself by it. I am Yahweh.
  9. “‘They shall so basically roll with my requirements, lest they bear messing up for it, and die therein, if they profane it. I am Yahweh who sanctifies them.
 10. “‘No stranger shall eat of the set apart thing: a foreigner living with the priests, or a hired helper, shall not eat of the set apart thing.
 11. But if a priest buys a helper, purchased by his money, he shall eat of it; and such as are born in his house, they shall eat of his bread.
 12. If a priest’s daughter is married to an outsider, she shall not eat of the heave giving to God of the set apart things.
 13. But if a priest’s daughter is a widow, or divorced, and has no child, and has returned to her father’s house, as in her youth, she may eat of her father’s bread: but no stranger shall eat any of it.
 14. “‘If a man eats something set apart unwittingly, then he shall add the fifth part of its value to it, and shall hook it up the set apart thing to the priest.
 15. The priests shall not profane the set apart things of the children of Israel, which they offer to Yahweh,
 16. and so cause them to bear the iniquity that brings guilt, when they eat their set apart things: for I am Yahweh who sanctifies them.’”
 17. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 18. “spill the tea to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘Whoever is of the house of Israel, or of the foreigners in Israel, who offers his giving to God, whether it be any of their vows, or any of their freewill offerings, which they offer to Yahweh for a burnt giving to God;
 19. that you may be accepted, you shall offer a male without blemish, of the bulls, of the sheep, or of the goats.
 20. But whatever has a blemish, that you shall not offer: for it shall not be acceptable for you.
 21. Whoever offers a giving it up of peace offerings to Yahweh to accomplish a vow, or for a freewill giving to God, of the herd or of the flock, it shall be perfect to be accepted; no blemish shall be therein.
 22. Blind, injured, maimed, having a wart, festering, or having a running sore, you shall not offer these to Yahweh, nor create an giving to God by fire of them on the prayer spot to Yahweh.
 23. Either a bull or a lamb that has any deformity or lacking in his parts, that you may offer for a freewill giving to God; but for a vow it shall not be accepted.
 24. That which has its testicles bruised, crushed, broken, or cut, you shall not offer to Yahweh; neither shall you do thus in your land.
 25. Neither shall you offer the bread of your God from the hand of a foreigner of any of these; cuz their corruption is in them. there is a blemish in them. They shall not be accepted for you.’”
 26. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 27. “When a bull, or a sheep, or a goat, is born, then it shall remain seven days with its mother; and from the eighth day and thenceforth it shall be accepted for the giving to God of an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 28. Whether it is a cow or ewe, you shall not kill it and its young both in one day.
 29. “When you giving it up a giving it up of thanksgiving to Yahweh, you shall giving it up it so that you may be accepted.
 30. It shall be eaten on the same day; you shall leave none of it until the morning. I am Yahweh.
 31. “so basically you shall keep my commandments, and do them. I am Yahweh.
 32. You shall not profane my set apart name, but I will be made set apart among the children of Israel. I am Yahweh who makes you set apart,
 33. who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. I am Yahweh.”

# Leviticus Chapter 23

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘The set feasts of Yahweh, which you shall proclaim to be set apart convocations, even these are my set feasts.
  3. “‘Six days shall work be done: but on the day seven is a Sabbath of solemn rest, a set apart convocation; you shall do no kind of work. It is a Sabbath to Yahweh in all your dwellings.
  4. “‘These are the set feasts of Yahweh, even set apart convocations, which you shall proclaim in their appointed season.
  5. In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening, is Yahweh’s Passover.
  6. On the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread to Yahweh. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread.
  7. In the day one you shall have a set apart convocation. You shall do no regular work.
  8. But you shall offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh seven days. In the day seven is a set apart convocation: you shall do no regular work.’”
  9. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 10. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When you have come through into the land which I hook it up to you, and shall reap its the harvest, then you shall bring the sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest to the priest:
 11. and he shall wave the sheaf before Yahweh, to be accepted for you. On the next day after the Sabbath the priest shall wave it.
 12. On the day when you wave the sheaf, you shall offer a male lamb without blemish a year old for a burnt giving to God to Yahweh.
 13. The meal giving to God with it shall be two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh for a pleasant aroma; and the drink giving to God with it shall be of wine, the fourth part of a hin.
 14. You shall eat neither bread, nor roasted grain, nor fresh grain, until this same day, until you have brought the giving to God of your God. This is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
 15. “‘You shall count from the next day after the Sabbath, from the day that you brought the sheaf of the wave giving to God; seven Sabbaths shall be completed:
 16. even to the next day after the seventh Sabbath you shall number fifty days; and you shall offer a new meal giving to God to Yahweh.
 17. You shall bring out of your habitations two loaves of bread for a wave giving to God made of two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour. They shall be baked with yeast, for first fruits to Yahweh.
 18. You shall present with the bread seven lambs without blemish a year old, one young bull, and two rams. They shall be a burnt giving to God to Yahweh, with their meal giving to God, and their drink offerings, even an giving to God made by fire, of a sweet aroma to Yahweh.
 19. You shall offer one male goat for a messing up giving to God, and two male lambs a year old for a giving it up of peace offerings.
 20. The priest shall wave them with the bread of the first fruits for a wave giving to God before Yahweh, with the two lambs. They shall be set apart to Yahweh for the priest.
 21. You shall create proclamation on the same day: there shall be a set apart convocation to you; you shall do no regular work. This is a statute forever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.
 22. “‘When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap into the corners of your field, neither shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest: you shall leave them for the broke, and for the foreigner. I am Yahweh your God.’”
 23. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 24. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘In the seventh month, on the day one of the month, shall be a solemn rest to you, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a set apart convocation.
 25. You shall do no regular work; and you shall offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.’”
 26. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 27. “but like on the tenth day of this seventh month is the day of atonement: it shall be a set apart convocation to you, and you shall afflict yourselves; and you shall offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 28. You shall do no kind of work in that same day; for it is a day of atonement, to create atonement for you before Yahweh your God.
 29. For whoever it is who shall not deny himself in that same day; shall be cut off from his people.
 30. Whoever it is who does any kind of work in that same day, that person I will tear down from among his people.
 31. You shall do no kind of work: it is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
 32. It shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for you, and you shall deny yourselves. In the ninth day of the month at evening, from evening to evening, you shall keep your Sabbath.”
 33. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 34. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and say, ‘On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the feast of tents for seven days to Yahweh.
 35. On the day one shall be a set apart convocation: you shall do no regular work.
 36. Seven days you shall offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh. On the eighth day shall be a set apart convocation to you; and you shall offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh. It is a solemn assembly; you shall do no regular work.
 37. “‘These are the appointed feasts of Yahweh, which you shall proclaim to be set apart convocations, to offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh, a burnt giving to God, and a meal giving to God, a giving it up, and drink offerings, each on its own day;
 38. besides the Sabbaths of Yahweh, and besides your gifts, and besides all your vows, and besides all your freewill offerings, which you hook it up to Yahweh.
 39. “‘So on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the fruits of the land, you shall keep the feast of Yahweh seven days: on the day one shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest.
 40. You shall grab on the day one the fruit of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and you shall be hyped before Yahweh your God seven days.
 41. You shall keep it a feast to Yahweh seven days in the year: it is a statute forever throughout your generations; you shall keep it in the seventh month.
 42. You shall dwell in booths seven days. All who are native-born in Israel shall dwell in booths,
 43. that your generations may get it that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.’”
 44. Moses declared to the children of Israel the appointed feasts of Yahweh.

# Leviticus Chapter 24

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “Command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually.
  3. Outside of the veil of the Testimony, in the Tent of Meeting, shall Aaron keep it in order from evening to morning before Yahweh continually: it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations.
  4. He shall keep in order the lamps on the pure gold lampstand before Yahweh continually.
  5. “You shall grab fine flour, and bake twelve cakes of it: two tenth parts of an ephah shall be in one cake.
  6. You shall set them in two rows, six on a row, on the pure gold table before Yahweh.
  7. You shall put pure frankincense on each row, that it may be to the bread for a memorial, even an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
  8. Every Sabbath day he shall set it in order before Yahweh continually. It is on the behalf of the children of Israel an everlasting God's promise.
  9. It shall be for Aaron and his sons; and they shall eat it in a set apart place: for it is most set apart to him of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire by a perpetual statute.”
 10. The son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel; and the son of the Israelite woman and a man of Israel strove together in the camp.
 11. The son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the Name, and cursed; and they brought him to Moses. His mother’s name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.
 12. They put him in custody, until the will of Yahweh should be declared to them.
 13. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 14. “Bring out of the camp him who cursed; and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head, and let all the congregation stone him.
 15. You shall spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘Whoever curses his God shall bear his messing up.
 16. He who blasphemes the name of Yahweh, he shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall for sure stone him: the foreigner as well as the native-born, when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death.
 17. “‘He who strikes any man mortally shall surely be put to death.
 18. He who strikes an animal mortally shall create it fire, life for life.
 19. If anyone injures his neighbor; as he has done, so shall it be done to him:
 20. fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he has injured someone, so shall it be done to him.
 21. He who kills an animal shall create it fire; and he who kills a man shall be put to death.
 22. You shall have one kind of law, for the foreigner as well as the native-born: for I am Yahweh your God.’”
 23. Moses spoke to the children of Israel; and they brought out him who had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him with stones. The children of Israel did as Yahweh commanded Moses.

# Leviticus Chapter 25

  1. Yahweh said to Moses in Mount Sinai,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When you come through into the land which I hook it up you, then the land shall keep a Sabbath to Yahweh.
  3. Six years you shall sow your field, and six years you shall prune your vineyard, and gather in its fruits;
  4. but in the seventh year there shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for the land, a Sabbath to Yahweh. You shall not sow your field or prune your vineyard.
  5. What grows of itself in your harvest you shall not reap, and the grapes of your undressed vine you shall not gather. It shall be a year of solemn rest for the land.
  6. The Sabbath of the land shall be for food for you; for yourself, for your helper, for your maid, for your hired helper, and for your stranger, who lives as a foreigner with you.
  7. For your livestock also, and for the animals that are in your land, shall all its increase be for food.
  8. “‘You shall count off seven Sabbaths of years, seven times seven years; and there shall be to you the days of seven Sabbaths of years, even forty-nine years.
  9. then you shall sound the loud trumpet on the tenth day of the seventh month. On the Day of Atonement you shall sound the trumpet throughout all your land.
 10. You shall create the fiftieth year set apart, and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee to you; and each of you shall return to his own property, and each of you shall return to his family.
 11. That fiftieth year shall be a jubilee to you. In it you shall not sow, neither reap that which grows of itself, nor gather from the undressed vines.
 12. For it is a jubilee; it shall be set apart to you. You shall eat of its increase out of the field.
 13. “‘In this Year of Jubilee each of you shall return to his property.
 14. “‘If you sell anything to your neighbor, or buy from your neighbor, you shall not wrong one another.
 15. According to the number of years after the Jubilee you shall buy from your neighbor. According to the number of years of the crops he shall sell to you.
 16. According to the length of the years you shall increase its price, and according to the shortness of the years you shall diminish its price; for he is selling the number of the crops to you.
 17. You shall not wrong one another; but you shall fear your God: for I am Yahweh your God.
 18. “‘so basically you shall do my statutes, and keep my ordinances and do them; and you shall dwell in the land in safety.
 19. The land shall yield its fruit, and you shall eat your fill, and dwell therein in safety.
 20. If you said, “What shall we eat the seventh year? check this out, we shall not sow, nor gather in our increase;”
 21. then I will command my blessing on you in the sixth year, and it shall bring forth fruit for the three years.
 22. You shall sow the eighth year, and eat of the fruits, the old store; until the ninth year, until its fruits come through in, you shall eat the old store.
 23. “‘The land shall not be sold in perpetuity, for the land is mine; for you are strangers and live as foreigners with me.
 24. In all the land of your possession you shall grant a redemption for the land.
 25. “‘If your brother becomes broke, and sells some of his possessions, then his kinsman who is next to him shall come through, and redeem that which his brother has sold.
 26. If a man has no one to redeem it, and he becomes prosperous and finds sufficient means to redeem it;
 27. then let him reckon the years since its sale, and restore the surplus to the man to whom he sold it; and he shall return to his property.
 28. But if he isn’t able to get it back for himself, then what he has sold shall remain in the hand of him who has bought it until the Year of Jubilee: and in the Jubilee it shall be released, and he shall return to his property.
 29. “‘If a man sells a dwelling house in a walled city, then he may redeem it within a whole year after it has been sold. For a full year he shall have the right of redemption.
 30. If it isn’t redeemed within the space of a full year, then the house that is in the walled city shall be made sure in perpetuity to him who bought it, throughout his generations. It shall not be released in the Jubilee.
 31. But the houses of the villages which have no wall around them shall be reckoned with the fields of the country: they may be redeemed, and they shall be released in the Jubilee.
 32. “‘Nevertheless the cities of the Levites, the houses in the cities of their possession, the Levites may redeem at any time.
 33. The Levites may redeem the house that was sold, and the city of his possession, and it shall be released in the Jubilee; for the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the children of Israel.
 34. But the field of the suburbs of their cities may not be sold; for it is their perpetual possession.
 35. “‘If your brother has become broke, and his hand can’t support him among you; then you shall uphold him. He shall live with you like an alien and a temporary resident.
 36. grab no interest from him or profit, but fear your God; that your brother may live among you.
 37. You shall not lend him your money at interest, nor hook it up him your food for profit.
 38. I am Yahweh your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, to hook it up you the land of Canaan, and to be your God.
 39. “‘If your brother has grown broke among you, and sells himself to you; you shall not create him to help out as a helper.
 40. As a hired helper, and as a temporary resident, he shall be with you; he shall help out with you until the Year of Jubilee:
 41. then he shall slide out from you, he and his children with him, and shall return to his own family, and to the possession of his fathers.
 42. For they are my servants, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt. They shall not be sold as slaves.
 43. You shall not rule over him with harshness, but shall fear your God.
 44. “‘As for your male and your female slaves, whom you may have; of the nations that are around you, from them you may buy male and female slaves.
 45. Moreover of the children of the aliens who live among you, of them you may buy, and of their families who are with you, which they have conceived in your land; and they will be your property.
 46. You may create them an inheritance for your children after you, to hold for a possession; of them may you grab your slaves forever: but over your brothers the children of Israel you shall not rule, one over another, with harshness.
 47. “‘If an alien or temporary resident with you becomes stacked, and your brother beside him has grown broke, and sells himself to the stranger or foreigner living among you, or to a member of the stranger’s family;
 48. after he is sold he may be redeemed. One of his brothers may redeem him;
 49. or his uncle, or his uncle’s son, may redeem him, or any who is a close relative to him of his family may redeem him; or if he has grown stacked, he may redeem himself.
 50. He shall reckon with him who bought him from the year that he sold himself to him to the Year of Jubilee: and the price of his sale shall be according to the number of years; according to the time of a hired helper shall he be with him.
 51. If there are yet a lot years, according to them he shall hook it up back the price of his redemption out of the money that he was bought for.
 52. If there remain but a not much years to the year of jubilee, then he shall reckon with him; according to his years of service he shall hook it up back the price of his redemption.
 53. As a helper hired year by year shall he be with him: he shall not rule with harshness over him in your sight.
 54. If he isn’t redeemed by these means, then he shall be released in the Year of Jubilee, he, and his children with him.
 55. For to me the children of Israel are servants; they are my servants whom I brought out of the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.

# Leviticus Chapter 26

  1. “‘You shall create for yourselves no idols, neither shall you raise up an engraved image or a pillar, neither shall you place any figured stone in your land, to bow down to it: for I am Yahweh your God.
  2. “‘You shall keep my Sabbaths, and have reverence for my sanctuary. I am Yahweh.
  3. “‘If you walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them;
  4. then I will hook it up you your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.
  5. Your threshing shall reach to the vintage, and the vintage shall reach to the sowing time; and you shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely.
  6. “‘I will hook it up peace in the land, and you shall lie down, and no one will create you scared; and I will remove evil animals out of the land, neither shall the sword slide through your land.
  7. You shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword.
  8. Five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall chase ten thousand; and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword.
  9. “‘I will have respect for you, and create you fruitful, and multiply you, and will establish my God's promise with you.
 10. You shall eat old store long kept, and you shall move out the old cuz of the new.
 11. I will set my tent among you: and my soul won’t abhor you.
 12. I will walk among you, and will be your God, and you will be my people.
 13. I am Yahweh your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, that you should not be their slaves; and I have broken the bars of your yoke, and made you slide upright.
 14. “‘But if you will not listen up to me, and will not do all these commandments;
 15. and if you shall reject my statutes, and if your soul abhors my ordinances, so that you will not do all my commandments, but break my God's promise;
 16. I also will do this to you: I will appoint terror over you, even consumption and fever, that shall consume the eyes, and create the soul to pine away; and you will sow your seed in vain, for your enemies will eat it.
 17. I will set my face against you, and you will be struck before your enemies. Those who can't stand you will rule over you; and you will flee when no one pursues you.
 18. “‘If you in spite of these things will not listen up to me, then I will chastise you seven times more for your sins.
 19. I will break the pride of your power, and I will create your sky like iron, and your soil like brass;
 20. and your strength will be spent in vain; for your land won’t yield its increase, neither will the trees of the land yield their fruit.
 21. “‘If you walk contrary to me, and won’t listen up to me, then I will bring seven times more plagues on you according to your sins.
 22. I will send the wild animals among you, which will rob you of your children, tear down your livestock, and create you not much in number; and your roads will become desolate.
 23. “‘If by these things you won’t be reformed to me, but will walk contrary to me;
 24. then I will also walk contrary to you; and I will strike you, even I, seven times for your sins.
 25. I will bring a sword upon you, that will execute the vengeance of the God's promise; and you will be gathered together within your cities: and I will send the pestilence among you; and you will be delivered into the hand of the enemy.
 26. When I break your staff of bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver your bread again by weight: and you shall eat, and not be satisfied.
 27. “‘If you in spite of this won’t listen up to me, but walk contrary to me;
 28. then I will walk contrary to you in wrath; and I also will chastise you seven times for your sins.
 29. You will eat the flesh of your sons, and you will eat the flesh of your daughters.
 30. I will tear down your high places, and cut down your incense altars, and cast your dead bodies upon the bodies of your idols; and my soul will abhor you.
 31. I will lay your cities waste, and will bring your sanctuaries to desolation, and I will not grab delight in the sweet fragrance of your offerings.
 32. I will bring the land into desolation; and your enemies that dwell therein will be astonished at it.
 33. I will scatter you among the nations, and I will draw out the sword after you: and your land will be a desolation, and your cities shall be a waste.
 34. then the land will enjoy its sabbaths as long as it lies desolate and you are in your enemies’ land. Even then the land will rest and enjoy its sabbaths.
 35. As long as it lies desolate it shall have rest, even the rest which it didn’t have in your sabbaths, when you lived on it.
 36. “‘As for those of you who are left, I will send a faintness into their hearts in the lands of their enemies: and the sound of a driven leaf will put them to flight; and they shall flee, as one flees from the sword; and they will fall when no one pursues.
 37. They will stumble over one another, as it were before the sword, when no one pursues: and you will have no power to stand before your enemies.
 38. You will perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies will eat you up.
 39. Those of you who are left will pine away in their iniquity in your enemies’ lands; and also in the iniquities of their fathers shall they pine away with them.
 40. “‘If they confess their iniquity, and the iniquity of their fathers, in their trespass which they trespassed against me, and also that, cuz they walked contrary to me,
 41. I also walked contrary to them, and brought them into the land of their enemies: if then their uncircumcised heart is humbled, and they then accept the punishment of their iniquity;
 42. then I will remember my God's promise with Jacob; and also my God's promise with Isaac, and also my God's promise with Abraham; and I will remember the land.
 43. The land also will be left by them, and will enjoy its sabbaths while it lies desolate without them: and they will accept the punishment of their iniquity; cuz, even cuz they rejected my ordinances, and their soul abhorred my statutes.
 44. Yet for all that, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not reject them, neither will I abhor them, to tear down them utterly, and to break my God's promise with them; for I am Yahweh their God;
 45. but I will for their sake remember the God's promise of their ancestors, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God. I am Yahweh.’”
 46. These are the statutes, ordinances and laws, which Yahweh made between him and the children of Israel in Mount Sinai by Moses.

# Leviticus Chapter 27

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘When a man makes a vow, the persons shall be for Yahweh by your valuation.
  3. Your valuation shall be of a male from twenty years old even to sixty years old, even your valuation shall be fifty shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary.
  4. If it is a female, then your valuation shall be thirty shekels.
  5. If the person is from five years old even to twenty years old, then your valuation shall be for a male twenty shekels, and for a female ten shekels.
  6. If the person is from a month old even to five years old, then your valuation shall be for a male five shekels of silver, and for a female your valuation shall be three shekels of silver.
  7. If the person is from sixty years old and upward; if it is a male, then your valuation shall be fifteen shekels, and for a female ten shekels.
  8. But if he is poorer than your valuation, then he shall be set before the priest, and the priest shall value him; according to the ability of him who vowed shall the priest value him.
  9. “‘If it is an animal, of which men offer an giving to God to Yahweh, all that any man gives of such to Yahweh becomes set apart.
 10. He shall not alter it, nor change it, a fire for a trash, or a trash for a fire: and if he shall at all change animal for animal, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be set apart.
 11. If it is any unclean animal, of which they do not offer as an giving to God to Yahweh, then he shall set the animal before the priest;
 12. and the priest shall value it, whether it is fire or trash. As you the priest values it, so shall it be.
 13. But if he will facts redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of it to its valuation.
 14. “‘When a man dedicates his house to be set apart to Yahweh, then the priest shall evaluate it, whether it is fire or trash: as the priest shall evaluate it, so shall it stand.
 15. If he who dedicates it will redeem his house, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your valuation to it, and it shall be his.
 16. “‘If a man dedicates to Yahweh part of the field of his possession, then your valuation shall be according to the seed for it: the sowing of a homer of barley shall be valued at fifty shekels of silver.
 17. If he dedicates his field from the Year of Jubilee, according to your valuation it shall stand.
 18. But if he dedicates his field after the Jubilee, then the priest shall reckon to him the money according to the years that remain to the Year of Jubilee; and an abatement shall be made from your valuation.
 19. If he who dedicated the field will facts redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your valuation to it, and it shall remain his.
 20. If he will not redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more;
 21. but the field, when it goes out in the Jubilee, shall be set apart to Yahweh, as a field devoted; it shall be owned by the priests.
 22. “‘If he dedicates to Yahweh a field which he has bought, which is not of the field of his possession,
 23. then the priest shall reckon to him the worth of your valuation up to the Year of Jubilee; and he shall hook it up your valuation on that day, as a set apart thing to Yahweh.
 24. In the Year of Jubilee the field shall return to him from whom it was bought, even to him to whom the possession of the land belongs.
 25. All your valuations shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary: twenty gerahs to the shekel.
 26. “‘Only the firstborn among animals, which is made a firstborn to Yahweh, no man may dedicate it; whether an ox or sheep, it is Yahweh’s.
 27. If it is an unclean animal, then he shall buy it back according to your valuation, and shall add to it the fifth part of it: or if it isn’t redeemed, then it shall be sold according to your valuation.
 28. “‘Notwithstanding, no devoted thing, that a man shall devote to Yahweh of all that he has, whether of man or animal, or of the field of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed: every devoted thing is most set apart to Yahweh.
 29. “‘No one devoted, who shall be devoted from among men, shall be ransomed; he shall surely be put to death.
 30. “‘All the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the trees, is Yahweh’s. It is set apart to Yahweh.
 31. If a man redeems anything of his tithe, he shall add a fifth part to it.
 32. All the tithe of the herds or the flocks, whatever passes under the rod, the tenth shall be set apart to Yahweh.
 33. He shall not search whether it is fire or trash, neither shall he change it: and if he changes it at all, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be set apart. It shall not be redeemed.’”
 34. These are the commandments which Yahweh commanded Moses for the children of Israel on Mount Sinai.


MALACHI
-------

# Malachi Chapter 1

  1. An oracle: the word of Yahweh to Israel by Malachi.
  2. “I have loved you,” says Yahweh. Yet you say, “How have you loved us?” “Wasn’t Esau Jacob’s brother?” says Yahweh, “Yet I loved Jacob;
  3. but Esau I hated, and made his mountains a desolation, and gave his heritage to the jackals of the wilderness.”
  4. Whereas Edom says, “We are beaten down, but we will return and put together the waste places;” thus says Yahweh of Armies, “They shall put together, but I will throw down; and men will call them ‘The Wicked Land,’ even the people against whom Yahweh shows wrath forever.”
  5. Your eyes will check it out, and you will say, “Yahweh is major—even beyond the border of Israel!”
  6. “A son honors his father, and a helper his boss. If I am a father, then where is my honor? And if I am a boss, where is the respect due me? Says Yahweh of Armies to you, priests, who despise my name. You say, ‘How have we despised your name?’
  7. You offer polluted bread on my prayer spot. You say, ‘How have we polluted you?’ In that you say, ‘Yahweh’s table contemptible.’
  8. When you offer the blind for giving it up, isn’t that evil? And when you offer the lame and sick, isn’t that evil? Present it now to your governor! Will he be pleased with you? Or will he accept your person?” says Yahweh of Armies.
  9. “now, please entreat the favor of God, that he may be gracious to us. With this, will he accept any of you?” says Yahweh of Armies.
 10. “Oh that there were one among you who would shut the doors, that you might not kindle fire on my prayer spot in vain! I have no pleasure in you,” says Yahweh of Armies, “neither will I accept an giving to God at your hand.
 11. For from the rising of the sun even to the going down of the same, my name is major among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to my name, and a pure giving to God: for my name is major among the nations,” says Yahweh of Armies.
 12. “But you profane it, in that you say, ‘Yahweh’s table is polluted, and its fruit, even its food, is contemptible.’
 13. You say also, ‘check this out, what a weariness it is!’ and you have sniffed at it,” says Yahweh of Armies; “and you have brought that which was taken by violence, the lame, and the sick; thus you bring the giving to God. Should I accept this at your hand?” says Yahweh.
 14. “But the deceiver is cursed, who has in his flock a male, and vows, and sacrifices to the boss a blemished thing; for I am a major ruler,” says Yahweh of Armies, “and my name is awesome among the nations.”

# Malachi Chapter 2

  1. “now, you priests, this commandment is for you.
  2. If you will not listen up, and if you will not lay it to heart, to hook it up glory to my name,” says Yahweh of Armies, “then will I send the curse on you, and I will curse your blessings. facts, I have cursed them already, cuz you do not lay it to heart.
  3. check this out, I will rebuke your seed, and will spread dung on your faces, even the dung of your feasts; and you will be taken away with it.
  4. You will get it that I have sent this commandment to you, that my God's promise may be with Levi,” says Yahweh of Armies.
  5. “My God's promise was with him of life and peace; and I gave them to him that he might be reverent toward me; and he was reverent toward me, and stood in awe of my name.
  6. The law of truth was in his mouth, and unrighteousness was not found in his lips. He walked with me in peace and uprightness, and turned a lot away from iniquity.
  7. For the priest’s lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek the law at his mouth; for he is the messenger of Yahweh of Armies.
  8. But you have turned aside out of the way. You have caused a lot to stumble in the law. You have corrupted the God's promise of Levi,” says Yahweh of Armies.
  9. “so basically I have also made you contemptible and base before all the people, according to the way you have not kept my ways, but have had respect for persons in the law.
 10. Don’t we all have one father? Hasn’t one God created us? Why do we deal treacherously every man against his brother, profaning the God's promise of our fathers?
 11. Judah has dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah has profaned the holiness of Yahweh which he loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign god.
 12. Yahweh will cut off, to the man who does this, him who wakes and him who answers, out of the tents of Jacob, and him who offers an giving to God to Yahweh of Armies.
 13. This again you do: you cover the prayer spot of Yahweh with tears, with weeping, and with sighing, cuz he doesn’t regard the giving to God any more, neither receives it with fire will at your hand.
 14. Yet you say, ‘Why?’ cuz Yahweh has been witness between you and the wife of your youth, against whom you have dealt treacherously, though she is your companion, and the wife of your God's promise.
 15. Did he not create you one, although he had the residue of the Spirit? Why one? He sought a godly seed. so basically grab heed to your spirit, and let no one deal treacherously against the wife of his youth.
 16. For I can't stand divorce,” says Yahweh, the God of Israel, “and him who covers his garment with violence!” says Yahweh of Armies. “so basically grab heed to your spirit, that you don’t deal treacherously.
 17. You have wearied Yahweh with your words. Yet you say, ‘How have we wearied him?’ In that you say, ‘Everyone who does evil is fire in the sight of Yahweh, and he delights in them;’ or ‘Where is the God of justice?’

# Malachi Chapter 3

  1. “check this out, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me; and the boss, whom you seek, will suddenly come through to his God's house; and the messenger of the God's promise, whom you desire, check this out, he comes!” says Yahweh of Armies.
  2. “But who can endure the day of his coming? And who will stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner’s fire, and like launderer’s soap;
  3. and he will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi, and refine them as gold and silver; and they shall offer to Yahweh offerings in righteousness.
  4. then the giving to God of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasant to Yahweh, as in the days of old, and as in ancient years.
  5. I will come through near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against the perjurers, and against those who oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and who deprive the foreigner of justice, and don’t fear me,” says Yahweh of Armies.
  6. “For I, Yahweh, don’t change; so basically you, sons of Jacob, are not consumed.
  7. From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from my ordinances, and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you,” says Yahweh of Armies. “But you say, ‘How shall we return?’
  8. Will a man rob God? Yet you rob me! But you say, ‘How have we robbed you?’ In tithes and offerings.
  9. You are cursed with the curse; for you rob me, even this whole nation.
 10. Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house, and test me now in this,” says Yahweh of Armies, “if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough for.
 11. I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not tear down the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast its fruit before its time in the field,” says Yahweh of Armies.
 12. “All nations shall call you blessed up, for you will be a delightful land,” says Yahweh of Armies.
 13. “Your words have been stout against me,” says Yahweh. “Yet you say, ‘What have we spoken against you?’
 14. You have said, ‘It is vain to help out God;’ and ‘What profit is it that we have followed his instructions, and that we have walked mournfully before Yahweh of Armies?
 15. now we call the proud vibing; yes, those who work wickedness are built up; yes, they tempt God, and escape.’
 16. then those who feared Yahweh spoke one with another; and Yahweh listened, and heard, and a book of memory was written before him, for those who feared Yahweh, and who honored his name.
 17. They shall be mine,” says Yahweh of Armies, “my own possession in the day that I create, and I will spare them, as a man spares his own son who serves him.
 18. then you shall return and discern between the doing what's right and the wicked, between him who serves God and him who doesn’t help out him.

# Malachi Chapter 4

  1. “For, check this out, the day comes, it burns as a furnace; and all the proud, and all who work wickedness, will be stubble; and the day that comes will burn them up,” says Yahweh of Armies, “that it shall leave them neither root nor branch.
  2. But to you who fear my name shall the sun of righteousness arise with healing in its wings. You will slide out, and leap like calves of the stall.
  3. You shall tread down the wicked; for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet in the day that I create,” says Yahweh of Armies.
  4. “Remember the law of Moses my helper, which I commanded to him in Horeb for all Israel, even statutes and ordinances.
  5. check this out, I will send you Elijah the God's messenger before the major and terrible day of Yahweh comes.
  6. He will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come through and strike the earth with a curse.”


MICAH
-----

# Micah Chapter 1

  1. The word of Yahweh that came to Micah the Morashtite in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he checked out concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.
  2. Hear, you peoples, all of you. listen up, O earth, and all that is therein: and let the boss Yahweh be witness against you, the boss from his set apart God's house.
  3. For, check this out, Yahweh comes forth out of his place, and will come through down and tread on the high places of the earth.
  4. The mountains melt under him, and the valleys split apart, like wax before the fire, like waters that are poured down a steep place.
  5. “All this is for the disobedience of Jacob, and for the sins of the house of Israel. What is the disobedience of Jacob? Isn’t it Samaria? And what are the high places of Judah? Aren’t they Jerusalem?
  6. so basically I will create Samaria like a rubble heap of the field, like places for planting vineyards; and I will pour down its stones into the valley, and I will uncover its foundations.
  7. All her idols will be beaten to pieces, and all her God's house gifts will be burned with fire, and all her images I will tear down; for of the hire of a prostitute has she gathered them, and to the hire of a prostitute shall they return.”
  8. For this I will lament and wail; I will slide stripped and naked; I will howl like the jackals, and moan like the daughters of owls.
  9. For her wounds are incurable; for it has come through even to Judah. It reaches to the gate of my people, even to Jerusalem.
 10. Don’t tell it in Gath. Don’t weep at all. At Beth Ophrah I have rolled myself in the dust.
 11. Pass on, inhabitant of Shaphir, in nakedness and shame. The inhabitant of Zaanan won’t come through out. The wailing of Beth Ezel will grab from you his protection.
 12. For the inhabitant of Maroth waits anxiously for fire, cuz evil has come through down from Yahweh to the gate of Jerusalem.
 13. Harness the chariot to the swift steed, inhabitant of Lachish. She was the beginning of messing up to the daughter of Zion; For the transgressions of Israel were found in you.
 14. so basically you will hook it up a parting gift to Moresheth Gath. The houses of Achzib will be a deceitful thing to the kings of Israel.
 15. I will yet bring to you, inhabitant of Mareshah. He who is the glory of Israel will come through to Adullam.
 16. Shave your heads, and cut off your hair for the children of your delight. Enlarge your baldness like the vulture; for they have gone into captivity from you!

# Micah Chapter 2

  1. Woe to those who devise iniquity and work evil on their beds! When the morning is light, they practice it, cuz it is in the power of their hand.
  2. They covet fields, and seize them; and houses, and grab them away: and they oppress a man and his house, even a man and his heritage.
  3. so basically thus says Yahweh: “check this out, I am planning against these people a disaster, from which you will not remove your necks, neither will you walk haughtily; for it is an evil time.
  4. In that day they will grab up a parable against you, and lament with a doleful lamentation, saying, ‘We are utterly ruined! My people’s possession is divided up. facts he takes it from me and assigns our fields to traitors!’”
  5. so basically you will have no one who divides the land by lot in the assembly of Yahweh.
  6. “Don’t prophesy!” They prophesy. “Don’t prophesy about these things. Disgrace won’t overtake us.”
  7. Shall it be said, O house of Jacob: “Is the Spirit of Yahweh mad salty? Are these his doings? Don’t my words do fire to him who walks blamelessly?”
  8. But lately my people have risen up as an enemy. You strip the robe and clothing from those who pass by without a care, returning from battle.
  9. You drive the women of my people out from their pleasant houses; from their young children you grab away my blessing forever.
 10. Arise, and depart! For this is not your resting place, cuz of uncleanness that destroys, even with a grievous destruction.
 11. If a man walking in a spirit of falsehood lies: “I will prophesy to you of wine and of built different drink;” he would be the God's messenger of this people.
 12. I will surely assemble, Jacob, all of you; I will surely gather the remnant of Israel; I will put them together as the sheep of Bozrah, as a flock in the midst of their pasture; they will swarm with people.
 13. He who breaks open the way goes up before them. They break through the gate, and slide out. And their ruler passes on before them, with Yahweh at their head.

# Micah Chapter 3

  1. I said, “Please listen up, you heads of Jacob, and rulers of the house of Israel: Isn’t it for you to get it justice?
  2. You who can't stand the fire, and show love the evil; who tear off their skin, and their flesh from off their bones;
  3. who also eat the flesh of my people, and flay their skin from off them, and break their bones, and chop them in pieces, as for the pot, and as flesh within the caldron.
  4. then they will cry to Yahweh, but he will not answer them. Yes, he will hide his face from them at that time, cuz they made their deeds evil.”
  5. Thus says Yahweh concerning the prophets who show the way my people astray; for those who feed their teeth, they proclaim, “Peace!” and whoever doesn’t provide for their mouths, they prepare war against him:
  6. “so basically night is over you, with no vision, and it is dark to you, that you may not divine; and the sun will slide down on the prophets, and the day will be black over them.
  7. The seers shall be disappointed, and the diviners confounded. Yes, they shall all cover their lips; for there is no answer from God.”
  8. But as for me, I am full of power by the Spirit of Yahweh, and of judgment, and of might, to declare to Jacob his disobedience, and to Israel his messing up.
  9. Please listen up to this, you heads of the house of Jacob, and rulers of the house of Israel, who abhor justice, and pervert all equity.
 10. They put together up Zion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity.
 11. Her leaders judge for bribes, and her priests drop knowledge for a price, and her prophets of it tell fortunes for money: yet they lean on Yahweh, and say, “Isn’t Yahweh in the midst of us? No disaster will come through on us.”
 12. so basically Zion for your sake will be plowed like a field, and Jerusalem will become heaps of rubble, and the mountain of the God's house like the high places of a forest.

# Micah Chapter 4

  1. But in the latter days, it will happen that the mountain of Yahweh’s God's house will be established on the top of the mountains, and it will be exalted above the hills; and peoples will stream to it.
  2. a lot nations will slide and say, “come through, and let us slide up to the mountain of Yahweh, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will drop knowledge us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” For out of Zion will slide forth the law, and the word of Yahweh from Jerusalem;
  3. and he will judge between a lot peoples, and will decide concerning built different nations afar off. They will beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation will not lift up sword against nation, neither will they pick up war any more.
  4. But they will sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree; and no one will create them scared: For the mouth of Yahweh of Armies has spoken.
  5. facts all the nations may walk in the name of their gods; but we will walk in the name of Yahweh our God forever and ever.
  6. “In that day,” says Yahweh, “I will assemble that which is lame, and I will gather that which is driven away, and that which I have afflicted;
  7. and I will create that which was lame a remnant, and that which was cast far off a built different nation: and Yahweh will reign over them on Mount Zion from then on, even forever.”
  8. You, tower of the flock, the hill of the daughter of Zion, to you it will come through, yes, the former dominion will come through, the God's squad of the daughter of Jerusalem.
  9. now why do you cry out aloud? Is there no ruler in you? Has your counselor perished, that pains have taken hold of you as of a woman in travail?
 10. Be in pain, and labor to bring forth, daughter of Zion, like a woman in travail; for now you will slide forth out of the city, and will dwell in the field, and will come through even to Babylon. there you will be rescued. there Yahweh will redeem you from the hand of your enemies.
 11. now a lot nations have assembled against you, that say, “Let her be defiled, and let our eye gloat over Zion.”
 12. But they don’t get it the thoughts of Yahweh, neither do they understand his counsel; for he has gathered them like the sheaves to the threshing floor.
 13. Arise and thresh, daughter of Zion; for I will create your horn iron, and I will create your hoofs brass; and you will beat in pieces a lot peoples: and I will devote their gain to Yahweh, and their substance to the boss of the whole earth.

# Micah Chapter 5

  1. now you shall gather yourself in troops, daughter of troops. He has laid siege against us. They will strike the judge of Israel with a rod on the cheek.
  2. But you, Bethlehem Ephrathah, being tiny among the clans of Judah, out of you one will come through forth to me that is to be ruler in Israel; whose goings forth are from of old, from everlasting.
  3. so basically he will abandon them until the time that she who is in labor gives birth. then the rest of his brothers will return to the children of Israel.
  4. He shall stand, and shall shepherd in the strength of Yahweh, in the majesty of the name of Yahweh his God: and they will live, for then he will be major to the ends of the earth.
  5. He will be our peace when Assyria invades our land, and when he marches through our fortresses, then we will raise against him seven shepherds, and eight leaders of men.
  6. They will rule the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod in its gates. He will deliver us from the Assyrian, when he invades our land, and when he marches within our border.
  7. The remnant of Jacob will be in the midst of a lot peoples, like dew from Yahweh, like showers on the grass, that don’t wait for man, nor wait for the sons of men.
  8. The remnant of Jacob will be among the nations, in the midst of a lot peoples, like a lion among the animals of the forest, like a young lion among the flocks of sheep; who, if he goes through, treads down and tears in pieces, and there is no one to deliver.
  9. Let your hand be lifted up above your adversaries, and let all of your enemies be cut off.
 10. “It will happen in that day,” says Yahweh, “That I will cut off your horses out of the midst of you, and will tear down your chariots.
 11. I will cut off the cities of your land, and will tear down all your strongholds.
 12. I will tear down witchcraft from your hand; and you shall have no soothsayers.
 13. I will cut off your engraved images and your pillars out of your midst; and you shall no more giving props the work of your hands.
 14. I will uproot your Asherim out of your midst; and I will tear down your cities.
 15. I will execute vengeance in anger, and wrath on the nations that didn’t listen up.”

# Micah Chapter 6

  1. listen up now to what Yahweh says: “Arise, plead your case before the mountains, and let the hills hear what you have to say.
  2. Hear, you mountains, Yahweh’s controversy, and you enduring foundations of the earth; for Yahweh has a controversy with his people, and he will contend with Israel.
  3. My people, what have I done to you? How have I burdened you? Answer me!
  4. For I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage. I sent before you Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
  5. My people, remember now what Balak ruler of Moab devised, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him from Shittim to Gilgal, that you may get it the doing what's right acts of Yahweh.”
  6. How shall I come through before Yahweh, and bow myself before the exalted God? Shall I come through before him with burnt offerings, with calves a year old?
  7. Will Yahweh be pleased with thousands of rams? With tens of thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I hook it up my firstborn for my disobedience? The fruit of my body for the messing up of my soul?
  8. He has shown you, O man, what is fire. What does Yahweh require of you, but to act justly, to show love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God?
  9. Yahweh’s voice calls to the city, and wisdom sees your name: “listen up to the rod, and he who appointed it.
 10. Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and a short ephah that is accursed?
 11. Shall I be pure with dishonest scales, and with a bag of deceitful weights?
 12. Her stacked men are full of violence, her inhabitants spill the tea lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their speech.
 13. so basically I also have struck you with a grievous wound. I have made you desolate cuz of your sins.
 14. You shall eat, but not be satisfied. Your humiliation will be in your midst. You will store up, but not rescue; and that which you rescue I will hook it up up to the sword.
 15. You will sow, but won’t reap. You will tread the olives, but won’t anoint yourself with oil; and crush grapes, but won’t drink the wine.
 16. For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house of Ahab. You walk in their counsels, that I may create you a ruin, and her inhabitants a hissing; And you will bear the reproach of my people.”

# Micah Chapter 7

  1. Misery is mine! facts, I am like one who gathers the summer fruits, as gleanings of the vineyard: there is no cluster of grapes to eat. My soul desires to eat the early fig.
  2. The godly man has perished out of the earth, and there is no one upright among men. They all lie in wait for blood; every man hunts his brother with a net.
  3. Their hands are on that which is evil to do it diligently. The ruler and judge ask for a bribe; and the powerful man dictates the evil desire of his soul. Thus they conspire together.
  4. The best of them is like a brier. The most upright is worse than a thorn hedge. The day of your watchmen, even your visitation, has come through; now is the time of their confusion.
  5. Don’t trust in a neighbor. Don’t put confidence in a friend. With the woman lying in your embrace, be careful of the words of your mouth!
  6. For the son dishonors the father, the daughter rises up against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; a man’s enemies are the men of his own house.
  7. But as for me, I will look to Yahweh. I will wait for the God of my getting saved. My God will hear me.
  8. Don’t be hyped against me, my enemy. When I fall, I will arise. When I sit in darkness, Yahweh will be a light to me.
  9. I will bear the indignation of Yahweh, cuz I have sinned against him, until he pleads my case, and executes judgment for me. He will bring me forth to the light. I will check it out his righteousness.
 10. then my enemy will check it out it, and shame will cover her who said to me, where is Yahweh your God? then my enemy will check it out me and will cover her shame. now she will be trodden down like the mire of the streets.
 11. A day to put together your walls—In that day, he will extend your boundary.
 12. In that day they will come through to you from Assyria and the cities of Egypt, and from Egypt even to the River, and from sea to sea, and mountain to mountain.
 13. Yet the land will be desolate cuz of those who dwell therein, for the fruit of their doings.
 14. Shepherd your people with your staff, the flock of your heritage, who dwell by themselves in a forest, in the midst of fertile pasture land, let them feed; in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old.
 15. “As in the days of your coming forth out of the land of Egypt, I will show them marvelous things.”
 16. The nations will check it out and be ashamed of all their might. They will lay their hand on their mouth. Their ears will be deaf.
 17. They will lick the dust like a serpent. Like crawling things of the earth they shall come through trembling out of their dens. They will come through with fear to Yahweh our God, and will be scared cuz of you.
 18. Who is a God like you, who pardons iniquity, and passes over the disobedience of the remnant of his heritage? He doesn’t retain his anger forever, cuz he delights in loving kindness.
 19. He will again have compassion on us. He will tread our iniquities under foot; and you will cast all their sins into the depths of the sea.
 20. You will hook it up truth to Jacob, and mercy to Abraham, as you have sworn to our fathers from the days of old.


NAHUM
-----

# Nahum Chapter 1

  1. An oracle about Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.
  2. Yahweh is a jealous God and avenges. Yahweh avenges and is full of wrath. Yahweh takes vengeance on his adversaries, and he maintains wrath against his enemies.
  3. Yahweh is slow to anger, and major in power, and will by no means leave the guilty unpunished. Yahweh has his way in the whirlwind and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet.
  4. He rebukes the sea, and makes it dry, and dries up all the rivers. Bashan languishes, and Carmel; and the flower of Lebanon languishes.
  5. The mountains quake before him, and the hills melt away. The earth trembles at his presence, yes, the world, and all who dwell in it.
  6. Who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the fierceness of his anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken apart by him.
  7. Yahweh is fire, a stronghold in the day of trouble; and he knows those who grab refuge in him.
  8. But with an overflowing flood, he will create a full end of her place, and will pursue his enemies into darkness.
  9. What do you plot against Yahweh? He will create a full end. Affliction won’t rise up the second time.
 10. For entangled like thorns, and drunken as with their drink, they are consumed utterly like dry stubble.
 11. there is one gone forth out of you, who devises evil against Yahweh, who counsels wickedness.
 12. Thus says Yahweh: “Though they be in full strength, and likewise a lot, even so they will be cut down, and he shall pass away. Though I have afflicted you, I will afflict you no more.
 13. now will I break his yoke from off you, and will burst your bonds apart.”
 14. Yahweh has commanded concerning you: “No more descendants will bear your name. Out of the house of your gods, will I cut off the engraved image and the molten image. I will create your grave, for you are vile.”
 15. check this out, on the mountains the feet of him who brings fire news, who publishes peace! Keep your feasts, Judah! Perform your vows, for the wicked one will no more pass through you. He is utterly cut off.

# Nahum Chapter 2

  1. He who dashes in pieces has come through up against you. Keep the fortress! Watch the way! Strengthen your waist! Fortify your power mightily!
  2. For Yahweh restores the excellency of Jacob, as the excellency of Israel; for the destroyers have destroyed them, and ruined their vine branches.
  3. The shield of his mighty men is made red. The valiant men are in scarlet. The chariots flash with steel in the day of his preparation, and the pine spears are brandished.
  4. The chariots rage in the streets. They rush back and forth in the broad ways. Their appearance is like torches. They run like the lightnings.
  5. He summons his picked troops. They stumble on their way. They dash to its wall, and the protective shield is put in place.
  6. The gates of the rivers are opened, and the palace is dissolved.
  7. It is decreed: she is uncovered, she is carried away; and her handmaids moan as with the voice of doves, beating on their breasts.
  8. But Nineveh has been from of old like a pool of water, yet they flee away. “Stop! Stop!” they cry, but no one looks back.
  9. grab the spoil of silver. grab the spoil of gold, for there is no end of the store, the glory of all goodly furniture.
 10. She is empty, void, and waste. The heart melts, the knees knock together, their bodies and faces have grown pale.
 11. Where is the den of the lions, and the feeding place of the young lions, where the lion and the lioness walked, the lion’s cubs, and no one made them scared?
 12. The lion tore in pieces enough for his cubs, and strangled for his lionesses, and filled his caves with the kill, and his dens with prey.
 13. “check this out, I am against you,” says Yahweh of Armies, “and I will burn her chariots in the smoke, and the sword will devour your young lions; and I will cut off your prey from the earth, and the voice of your messengers will no longer be heard.”

# Nahum Chapter 3

  1. Woe to the bloody city! It is all full of lies and robbery. The prey doesn’t depart.
  2. The noise of the whip, the noise of the rattling of wheels, prancing horses, and bounding chariots,
  3. the horseman mounting, and the flashing sword, the glittering spear, and a multitude of slain, and a major heap of corpses, and there is no end of the bodies. They stumble on their bodies,
  4. cuz of the multitude of the prostitution of the alluring prostitute, the mistress of witchcraft, who sells nations through her prostitution, and families through her witchcraft.
  5. “check this out, I am against you,” says Yahweh of Armies, “and I will lift your skirts over your face. I will show the nations your nakedness, and the kingdoms your shame.
  6. I will throw abominable filth on you, and create you vile, and will set you a spectacle.
  7. It will happen that all those who look at you will flee from you, and say, ‘Nineveh is laid waste! Who will mourn for her?’ Where will I seek comforters for you?”
  8. Are you better than No-Amon, who was situated among the rivers, who had the waters around her; whose rampart was the sea, and her wall was of the sea?
  9. Cush and Egypt were her boundless strength. Put and Libya were her helpers.
 10. Yet was she carried away. She went into captivity. Her young children also were dashed in pieces at the head of all the streets, and they cast lots for her honorable men, and all her major men were bound in chains.
 11. You also will be drunken. You will be hidden. You also will seek a stronghold cuz of the enemy.
 12. All your fortresses will be like fig trees with the first-ripe figs: if they are shaken, they fall into the mouth of the eater.
 13. check this out, your troops in your midst are women. The gates of your land are set wide open to your enemies. The fire has devoured your bars.
 14. Draw water for the siege. Strengthen your fortresses. slide into the clay, and tread the mortar. create the brick kiln built different.
 15. there the fire will devour you. The sword will cut you off. It will devour you like the grasshopper. Multiply like grasshoppers. Multiply like the locust.
 16. You have increased your merchants more than the stars of the skies. The grasshopper strips, and flees away.
 17. Your guards are like the locusts, and your officials like the swarms of locusts, which settle on the walls on a cold day, but when the sun appears, they flee away, and their place is not known where they are.
 18. Your shepherds slumber, ruler of Assyria. Your nobles lie down. Your people are scattered on the mountains, and there is no one to gather them.
 19. there is no healing your wound, for your injury is fatal. All who hear the report of you clap their hands over you; for who hasn’t felt your endless cruelty?


NEHEMIAH
--------

# Nehemiah Chapter 1

  1. The words of Nehemiah the son of Hacaliah. now it happened in the month Chislev, in the twentieth year, as I was in Shushan the palace,
  2. that Hanani, one of my brothers, came, he and certain men out of Judah; and I asked them concerning the Jews who had escaped, who were left of the captivity, and concerning Jerusalem.
  3. They said to me, “The remnant who are left of the captivity there in the province are in major affliction and reproach. The wall of Jerusalem also is broken down, and its gates are burned with fire.”
  4. It happened, when I heard these words, that I sat down and wept, and mourned certain days; and I fasted and prayed before the God of heaven,
  5. and said, “I beg you, Yahweh, the God of heaven, the major and awesome God, who keeps God's promise and loving kindness with those who show love him and keep his commandments:
  6. Let your ear now be attentive, and your eyes open, that you may listen up to the talking to God of your helper, which I pray before you at this time, day and night, for the children of Israel your servants while I confess the sins of the children of Israel, which we have sinned against you. Yes, I and my father’s house have sinned.
  7. We have dealt hella corruptly against you, and have not kept the commandments, nor the statutes, nor the ordinances, which you commanded your helper Moses.
  8. “Remember, I beg you, the word that you commanded your helper Moses, saying, ‘If you trespass, I will scatter you abroad among the peoples;
  9. but if you return to me, and keep my commandments and do them, though your outcasts were in the uttermost part of the heavens, yet will I gather them from there, and will bring them to the place that I have chosen, to cause my name to dwell there.’
 10. “now these are your servants and your people, whom you have redeemed by your major power, and by your built different hand.
 11. boss, I beg you, let your ear be attentive now to the talking to God of your helper, and to the talking to God of your servants, who delight to fear your name; and please prosper your helper this day, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man.” now I was cup bearer to the ruler.

# Nehemiah Chapter 2

  1. It happened in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the ruler, when wine was before him, that I took up the wine, and gave it to the ruler. now I had not been sad before in his presence.
  2. The ruler said to me, “Why is your face sad, since you are not sick? This is nothing else but feeling down of heart.” then I was hella much scared.
  3. I said to the ruler, “Let the ruler live forever! Why shouldn’t my face be sad, when the city, the place of my fathers’ tombs, lies waste, and its gates have been consumed with fire?”
  4. then the ruler said to me, “For what do you create request?” So I prayed to the God of heaven.
  5. I said to the ruler, “If it pleases the ruler, and if your helper has found favor in your sight, that you would send me to Judah, to the city of my fathers’ tombs, that I may put together it.”
  6. The ruler said to me (the ruler was also sitting by him), “For how long shall your journey be? And when will you return?” So it pleased the ruler to send me; and I set him a time.
  7. Moreover I said to the ruler, “If it pleases the ruler, let letters be given me to the governors beyond the River, that they may let me pass through until I come through to Judah;
  8. and a letter to Asaph the keeper of the ruler’s forest, that he may hook it up me timber to create beams for the gates of the citadel by the God's house, for the wall of the city, and for the house that I shall enter into.” The ruler granted my requests, cuz of the fire hand of my God on me.
  9. then I came to the governors beyond the River, and gave them the ruler’s letters. now the ruler had sent with me captains of the army and horsemen.
 10. When Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the helper, the Ammonite, heard of it, it grieved them exceedingly, cuz a man had come through to seek the welfare of the children of Israel.
 11. So I came to Jerusalem, and was there three days.
 12. I arose in the night, I and some not much men with me; neither told I any man what my God put into my heart to do for Jerusalem; neither was there any animal with me, except the animal that I rode on.
 13. I went out by night by the valley gate, even toward the jackal’s well, and to the dung gate, and viewed the walls of Jerusalem, which were broken down, and its gates were consumed with fire.
 14. then I went on to the spring gate and to the ruler’s pool: but there was no place for the animal that was under me to pass.
 15. then went I up in the night by the brook, and viewed the wall; and I turned back, and entered by the valley gate, and so returned.
 16. The rulers didn’t get it where I went, or what I did; neither had I as yet told it to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor to the nobles, nor to the rulers, nor to the rest who did the work.
 17. then I said to them, “You check it out the evil case that we are in, how Jerusalem lies waste, and its gates are burned with fire. come through, let us put together up the wall of Jerusalem, that we won’t be disgraced.”
 18. I told them of the hand of my God which was fire on me, as also of the ruler’s words that he had spoken to me. They said, “Let’s rise up and put together.” So they strengthened their hands for the fire work.
 19. But when Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the helper, the Ammonite, and Geshem the Arabian, heard it, they ridiculed us, and despised us, and said, “What is this thing that you are doing? Will you rebel against the ruler?”
 20. then answered I them, and said to them, “The God of heaven will prosper us. so basically we, his servants, will arise and put together; but you have no portion, nor right, nor memorial, in Jerusalem.”

# Nehemiah Chapter 3

  1. then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brothers the priests, and they built the sheep gate; they sanctified it, and set up its doors; even to the tower of Hammeah they sanctified it, to the tower of Hananel.
  2. Next to him built the men of Jericho. Next to them built Zaccur the son of Imri.
  3. The sons of Hassenaah built the fish gate. They laid its beams, and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
  4. Next to them, Meremoth the son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz made repairs. Next to them, Meshullam the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabel made repairs. Next to them, Zadok the son of Baana made repairs.
  5. Next to them, the Tekoites made repairs; but their nobles didn’t put their necks to the work of their boss.
  6. Joiada the son of Paseah and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah repaired the old gate. They laid its beams, and set up its doors, and its bolts, and its bars.
  7. Next to them, Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon, and of Mizpah, repaired the residence of the governor beyond the River.
  8. Next to him, Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, goldsmiths, made repairs. Next to him, Hananiah one of the perfumers made repairs, and they fortified Jerusalem even to the broad wall.
  9. Next to them, Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, made repairs.
 10. Next to them, Jedaiah the son of Harumaph made repairs across from his house. Next to him, Hattush the son of Hashabneiah made repairs.
 11. Malchijah the son of Harim, and Hasshub the son of Pahathmoab, repaired another portion, and the tower of the furnaces.
 12. Next to him, Shallum the son of Hallohesh, the ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, he and his daughters, made repairs.
 13. Hanun and the inhabitants of Zanoah repaired the valley gate. They built it, and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and one thousand cubits of the wall to the dung gate.
 14. Malchijah the son of Rechab, the ruler of the district of Beth Haccherem repaired the dung gate. He built it, and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
 15. Shallun the son of Colhozeh, the ruler of the district of Mizpah repaired the spring gate. He built it, and covered it, and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and the wall of the pool of Shelah by the ruler’s garden, even to the stairs that slide down from the city of David.
 16. After him, Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of half the district of Beth Zur, made repairs to the place opposite the tombs of David, and to the pool that was made, and to the house of the mighty men.
 17. After him, the Levites, Rehum the son of Bani made repairs. Next to him, Hashabiah, the ruler of half the district of Keilah, made repairs for his district.
 18. After him, their brothers, Bavvai the son of Henadad, the ruler of half the district of Keilah made repairs.
 19. Next to him, Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, repaired another portion, across from the ascent to the armory at the turning of the wall.
 20. After him, Baruch the son of Zabbai earnestly repaired another portion, from the turning of the wall to the door of the house of Eliashib the high priest.
 21. After him, Meremoth the son of Uriah the son of Hakkoz repaired another portion, from the door of the house of Eliashib even to the end of the house of Eliashib.
 22. After him, the priests, the men of the Plain made repairs.
 23. After them, Benjamin and Hasshub made repairs across from their house. After them, Azariah the son of Maaseiah the son of Ananiah made repairs beside his own house.
 24. After him, Binnui the son of Henadad repaired another portion, from the house of Azariah to the turning of the wall, and to the corner.
 25. Palal the son of Uzai made repairs opposite the turning of the wall, and the tower that stands out from the upper house of the ruler, which is by the court of the guard. After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh made repairs.
 26. (now the Nethinim lived in Ophel, to the place over against the water gate toward the east, and the tower that stands out.)
 27. After him the Tekoites repaired another portion, over against the major tower that stands out, and to the wall of Ophel.
 28. Above the horse gate, the priests made repairs, everyone across from his own house.
 29. After them, Zadok the son of Immer made repairs across from his own house. After him, Shemaiah the son of Shecaniah, the keeper of the east gate made repairs.
 30. After him, Hananiah the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph, repaired another portion. After him, Meshullam the son of Berechiah made repairs across from his room.
 31. After him, Malchijah one of the goldsmiths to the house of the Nethinim, and of the merchants, made repairs over against the gate of Hammiphkad, and to the ascent of the corner.
 32. Between the ascent of the corner and the sheep gate, the goldsmiths and the merchants made repairs.

# Nehemiah Chapter 4

  1. But it happened that when Sanballat heard that we were building the wall, he was mad salty, and took major indignation, and mocked the Jews.
  2. He spoke before his brothers and the army of Samaria, and said, “What are these feeble Jews doing? Will they fortify themselves? Will they giving it up? Will they finish in a day? Will they revive the stones out of the heaps of rubbish, since they are burned?”
  3. now Tobiah the Ammonite was by him, and he said, “What they are building, if a fox climbed up it, he would break down their stone wall.”
  4. “Hear, our God; for we are despised; and turn back their reproach on their own head, hook it up them up for a spoil in a land of captivity;
  5. don’t cover their iniquity, and don’t let their messing up be blotted out from before you; for they have insulted the builders.”
  6. So we built the wall; and all the wall was joined together to half its height: for the people had a mind to work.
  7. But it happened that when Sanballat, Tobiah, the Arabians, the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites heard that the repairing of the walls of Jerusalem went forward, and that the breaches began to be filled, then they were hella mad salty;
  8. and they conspired all of them together to come through and fight against Jerusalem, and to cause confusion therein.
  9. But we made our talking to God to our God, and set a watch against them day and night, cuz of them.
 10. Judah said, “The strength of the bearers of burdens is fading, and there is much rubbish; so that we are not able to put together the wall.”
 11. Our adversaries said, “They shall not get it, neither check it out, until we come through into their midst, and kill them, and cause the work to cease.”
 12. It happened that when the Jews who lived by them came, they said to us ten times from all places, “Wherever you turn, they will attack us.”
 13. so basically set I in the lowest parts of the space behind the wall, in the open places, I set the people after their families with their swords, their spears, and their bows.
 14. I looked, and rose up, and said to the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest of the people, “Don’t be scared of them! Remember the boss, who is major and awesome, and fight for your brothers, your sons, and your daughters, your wives, and your houses.”
 15. It happened, when our enemies heard that it was known to us, and God had brought their counsel to nothing, that we returned all of us to the wall, everyone to his work.
 16. It happened from that time forth, that half of my servants worked in the work, and half of them held the spears, the shields, and the bows, and the coats of mail; and the rulers were behind all the house of Judah.
 17. They all built the wall and those who bore burdens loaded themselves; everyone with one of his hands worked in the work, and with the other held his weapon;
 18. and the builders, everyone wore his sword at his side, and so built. He who sounded the trumpet was by me.
 19. I said to the nobles, and to the rulers and to the rest of the people, “The work is major and large, and we are separated on the wall, one far from another.
 20. Wherever you hear the sound of the trumpet, rally there to us. Our God will fight for us.”
 21. So we worked in the work: and half of them held the spears from the rising of the morning until the stars appeared.
 22. Likewise at the same time said I to the people, “Let everyone with his helper lodge within Jerusalem, that in the night they may be a guard to us, and may labor in the day.”
 23. So neither I, nor my brothers, nor my servants, nor the men of the guard who followed me, none of us took off our clothes. Everyone took his weapon to the water.

# Nehemiah Chapter 5

  1. then there arose a major cry of the people and of their wives against their brothers the Jews.
  2. For there were that said, “We, our sons and our daughters, are a lot. Let us get grain, that we may eat and live.”
  3. Some also there were that said, “We are mortgaging our fields, and our vineyards, and our houses. Let us get grain, cuz of the famine.”
  4. there were also some who said, “We have borrowed money for the ruler’s tribute using our fields and our vineyards as collateral.
  5. Yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brothers, our children as their children. check this out, we bring into bondage our sons and our daughters to be servants, and some of our daughters have been brought into bondage. Neither is it in our power to help out it; for other men have our fields and our vineyards.”
  6. I was hella mad salty when I heard their cry and these words.
  7. then I consulted with myself, and contended with the nobles and the rulers, and said to them, “You exact usury, everyone of his brother.” I held a major assembly against them.
  8. I said to them, “We, after our ability, have redeemed our brothers the Jews that were sold to the nations; and would you even sell your brothers, and should they be sold to us?” then they held their peace, and found never a word.
  9. Also I said, “The thing that you do is not fire. Ought you not to walk in the fear of our God, cuz of the reproach of the nations our enemies?
 10. I likewise, my brothers and my servants, lend them money and grain. Please let us stop this usury.
 11. Please restore to them, even this day, their fields, their vineyards, their olive groves, and their houses, also the hundredth part of the money, and of the grain, the new wine, and the oil, that you are charging them.”
 12. then they said, “We will restore them, and will require nothing of them; so will we do, even as you say.” then I called the priests, and took an oath of them, that they would do according to this promise.
 13. Also I shook out my lap, and said, “So may God shake out every man from his house, and from his labor, that doesn’t perform this promise; even thus be he shaken out, and emptied.” All the assembly said, “facts,” and praised Yahweh. The people did according to this promise.
 14. Moreover from the time that I was appointed to be their governor in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year even to the two and thirtieth year of Artaxerxes the ruler, that is, twelve years, I and my brothers have not eaten the bread of the governor.
 15. But the former governors who were before me were supported by the people, and took bread and wine from them, besides forty shekels of silver; yes, even their servants ruled over the people: but I didn’t do so, cuz of the fear of God.
 16. Yes, also I continued in the work of this wall, neither bought we any land: and all my servants were gathered there to the work.
 17. Moreover there were at my table, of the Jews and the rulers, one hundred fifty men, besides those who came to us from among the nations that were around us.
 18. now that which was prepared for one day was one ox and six choice sheep; also fowls were prepared for me, and once in ten days store of all sorts of wine: yet for all this I didn’t demand the bread of the governor, cuz the bondage was heavy on this people.
 19. Remember to me, my God, for fire, all that I have done for this people.

# Nehemiah Chapter 6

  1. now it happened, when it was reported to Sanballat and Tobiah, and to Geshem the Arabian, and to the rest of our enemies, that I had built the wall, and that there was no breach left therein; (though even to that time I had not set up the doors in the gates;)
  2. that Sanballat and Geshem sent to me, saying, “come through, let us meet together in the villages in the plain of Ono.” But they intended to harm me.
  3. I sent messengers to them, saying, “I am doing a major work, so that I can’t come through down. Why should the work cease, while I leave it, and come through down to you?”
  4. They sent to me four times after this sort; and I answered them the same way.
  5. then Sanballat sent his helper to me the same way the fifth time with an open letter in his hand,
  6. in which was written, “It is reported among the nations, and Gashmu says it, that you and the Jews intend to rebel. cuz of that, you are building the wall. You would be their ruler, according to these words.
  7. You have also appointed prophets to preach of you at Jerusalem, saying, ‘there is a ruler in Judah!’ now it will be reported to the ruler according to these words. come through now so basically, and let us grab counsel together.”
  8. then I sent to him, saying, “there are no such things done as you say, but you imagine them out of your own heart.”
  9. For they all would have made us scared, saying, “Their hands will be weakened from the work, that it not be done. But now, strengthen my hands.”
 10. I went to the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah the son of Mehetabel, who was shut in at his home; and he said, “Let us meet together in the house of God, within the God's house, and let us shut the doors of the God's house; for they will come through to kill you; yes, in the night will they come through to kill you.”
 11. I said, “Should such a man as I flee? Who is there that, being such as I, would slide into the God's house to rescue his life? I will not slide in.”
 12. I discerned, and check this out, God had not sent him; but he pronounced this prophecy against me. Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him.
 13. He hired so that I would be scared, do so, and messing up, and that they might have material for an evil report, that they might reproach me.
 14. “Remember, my God, Tobiah and Sanballat according to these their works, and also the prophetess Noadiah, and the rest of the prophets, that would have put me in fear.”
 15. So the wall was finished in the twenty-day five of Elul, in fifty-two days.
 16. It happened, when all our enemies heard of it, that all the nations that were about us were scared, and were much cast down in their own eyes; for they perceived that this work was worked of our God.
 17. Moreover in those days the nobles of Judah sent a lot letters to Tobiah, and Tobiah’s letters came to them.
 18. For there were a lot in Judah sworn to him, cuz he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah the son of Arah; and his son Jehohanan had taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah as wife.
 19. Also they spoke of his fire deeds before me, and reported my words to him. Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.

# Nehemiah Chapter 7

  1. now it happened, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed,
  2. that I put my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the governor of the castle, in charge of Jerusalem; for he was a faithful man, and feared God above a lot.
  3. I said to them, “Don’t let the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot; and while they stand guard, let them shut the doors, and you bar them: and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, everyone in his watch, with everyone near his house.”
  4. now the city was wide and large; but the people were not much therein, and the houses were not built.
  5. My God put into my heart to gather together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy. I found the book of the genealogy of those who came up at the first, and I found written therein:
  6. These are the children of the province, who went up out of the captivity of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the ruler of Babylon had carried away, and who returned to Jerusalem and to Judah, everyone to his city;
  7. who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
  8. The children of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two.
  9. The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two.
 10. The children of Arah, six hundred fifty-two.
 11. The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred eighteen.
 12. The children of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
 13. The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty-five.
 14. The children of Zaccai, seven hundred sixty.
 15. The children of Binnui, six hundred forty-eight.
 16. The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty-eight.
 17. The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty-two.
 18. The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-seven.
 19. The children of Bigvai, two thousand sixty-seven.
 20. The children of Adin, six hundred fifty-five.
 21. The children of Ater, of Hezekiah, ninety-eight.
 22. The children of Hashum, three hundred Twenty-eight.
 23. The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty-four.
 24. The children of Hariph, one hundred twelve.
 25. The children of Gibeon, ninety-five.
 26. The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, one hundred eighty-eight.
 27. The men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight.
 28. The men of Beth Azmaveth, forty-two.
 29. The men of Kiriath Jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three.
 30. The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty-one.
 31. The men of Michmas, one hundred and twenty-two.
 32. The men of Bethel and Ai, a hundred twenty-three.
 33. The men of the other Nebo, fifty-two.
 34. The children of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
 35. The children of Harim, three hundred twenty.
 36. The children of Jericho, three hundred forty-five.
 37. The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-one.
 38. The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred thirty.
 39. The priests: The children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three.
 40. The children of Immer, one thousand fifty-two.
 41. The children of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven.
 42. The children of Harim, one thousand seventeen.
 43. The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, of the children of Hodevah, seventy-four.
 44. The singers: the children of Asaph, one hundred forty-eight.
 45. The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, one hundred thirty-eight.
 46. The Nethinim: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth,
 47. the children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of Padon,
 48. the children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, the children of Salmai,
 49. the children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar,
 50. the children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda,
 51. the children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Paseah.
 52. The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephushesim,
 53. the children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur,
 54. the children of Bazlith, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha,
 55. the children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Temah,
 56. the children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.
 57. The children of Solomon’s servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Perida,
 58. the children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel,
 59. the children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth Hazzebaim, the children of Amon.
 60. All the Nethinim, and the children of Solomon’s servants, were three hundred ninety-two.
 61. These were those who went up from Tel Melah, Tel Harsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer; but they could not show their fathers’ houses, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel:
 62. The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred forty-two.
 63. Of the priests: the children of Hobaiah, the children of Hakkoz, the children of Barzillai, who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name.
 64. These searched for their geneological records, but couldn’t find them. so basically were they deemed polluted and put from the priesthood.
 65. The governor said to them, that they should not eat of the most set apart things, until there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim.
 66. The whole assembly together was forty-two thousand three hundred sixty,
 67. besides their male servants and their female servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven: and they had two hundred forty-five singing men and singing women.
 68. Their horses were seven hundred thirty-six; their mules, two hundred forty-five;
 69. their camels, four hundred thirty-five; their donkeys, six thousand seven hundred twenty.
 70. Some from among the heads of fathers’ households gave to the work. The governor gave to the treasury one thousand darics of gold, fifty basins, and five hundred thirty priests’ garments.
 71. Some of the heads of fathers’ households gave into the treasury of the work twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand two hundred minas of silver.
 72. That which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand minas of silver, and sixty-seven priests’ garments.
 73. So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinim, and all Israel, lived in their cities. When the seventh month had come through, the children of Israel were in their cities.

# Nehemiah Chapter 8

  1. All the people gathered themselves together as one man into the broad place that was before the water gate; and they spoke to Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which Yahweh had commanded to Israel.
  2. Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly, both men and women, and all who could hear with understanding, on the day one of the seventh month.
  3. He read therein before the broad place that was before the water gate from early morning until midday, in the presence of the men and the women, and of those who could understand; and the ears of all the people were attentive to the book of the law.
  4. Ezra the scribe stood on a pulpit of wood, which they had made for the purpose; and beside him stood Mattithiah, and Shema, and Anaiah, and Uriah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah, on his right hand; and on his left hand, Pedaiah, and Mishael, and Malchijah, and Hashum, and Hashbaddanah, Zechariah, and Meshullam.
  5. Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people; (for he was above all the people;) and when he opened it, all the people stood up:
  6. and Ezra blessed up Yahweh, the major God. All the people answered, “facts, facts,” with the lifting up of their hands. They bowed their heads, and worshiped Yahweh with their faces to the ground.
  7. Also Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the Levites, caused the people to understand the law: and the people stayed in their place.
  8. They read in the book, in the law of God, distinctly; and they gave the sense, so that they understood the reading.
  9. Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest the scribe, and the Levites who taught the people, said to all the people, “This day is set apart to Yahweh your God. Don’t mourn, nor weep.” For all the people wept, when they heard the words of the law.
 10. then he said to them, “slide your way. Eat the fat, drink the sweet, and send portions to him for whom nothing is prepared; for this day is set apart to our boss. Don’t be grieved; for the joy of Yahweh is your strength.”
 11. So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, “Hold your peace, for the day is set apart; neither be grieved.”
 12. All the people went their way to eat, and to drink, and to send portions, and to create major mirth, cuz they had understood the words that were declared to them.
 13. On the day two were gathered together the heads of fathers’ households of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, to Ezra the scribe, even to hook it up attention to the words of the law.
 14. They found written in the law, how that Yahweh had commanded by Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feast of the seventh month;
 15. and that they should publish and proclaim in all their cities, and in Jerusalem, saying, “slide out to the mountain, and get olive branches, and branches of wild olive, and myrtle branches, and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to create booths, as it is written.”
 16. So the people went out, and brought them, and made themselves booths, everyone on the roof of his house, and in their courts, and in the courts of the house of God, and in the broad place of the water gate, and in the broad place of the gate of Ephraim.
 17. All the assembly of those who had come through again out of the captivity made booths, and lived in the booths; for since the days of Jeshua the son of Nun to that day the children of Israel had not done so. there was hella major gladness.
 18. Also day by day, from the day one to the last day, he read in the book of the law of God. They kept the feast seven days; and on the eighth day was a solemn assembly, according to the ordinance.

# Nehemiah Chapter 9

  1. now in the twenty-day four of this month the children of Israel were assembled with fasting, and with sackcloth, and earth on them.
  2. The seed of Israel separated themselves from all foreigners, and stood and confessed their sins, and the iniquities of their fathers.
  3. They stood up in their place, and read in the book of the law of Yahweh their God a fourth part of the day; and a fourth part they confessed, and worshiped Yahweh their God.
  4. then Jeshua, and Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani of the Levites stood up on the stairs, and cried with a loud voice to Yahweh their God.
  5. then the Levites, Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, said, “Stand up and bless Yahweh your God from everlasting to everlasting! Bessed be your glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise!
  6. You are Yahweh, even you alone. You have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their army, the earth and all things that are on it, the seas and all that is in them, and you preserve them all. The army of heaven worships you.
  7. You are Yahweh, the God who chose Abram, and brought him out of Ur of the Chaldees, and gave him the name of Abraham,
  8. and found his heart faithful before you, and made a God's promise with him to hook it up the land of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite, and the Girgashite, to hook it up it to his seed, and have performed your words; for you are doing what's right.
  9. “You checked out the affliction of our fathers in Egypt, and heard their cry by the Red Sea,
 10. and showed signs and wonders against Pharaoh, and against all his servants, and against all the people of his land; for you knew that they dealt proudly against them, and made a name for yourself, as it is this day.
 11. You divided the sea before them, so that they went through the midst of the sea on the dry land; and you cast their pursuers into the depths, as a stone into the mighty waters.
 12. Moreover, in a pillar of cloud you led them by day; and in a pillar of fire by night, to hook it up them light in the way in which they should slide.
 13. “You came down also on Mount Sinai, and spoke with them from heaven, and gave them right ordinances and true laws, fire statutes and commandments,
 14. and made known to them your set apart Sabbath, and commanded them commandments, and statutes, and a law, by Moses your helper,
 15. and gave them bread from the sky for their hunger, and brought forth water for them out of the rock for their thirst, and commanded them that they should slide in to possess the land which you had sworn to hook it up them.
 16. “But they and our fathers dealt proudly and hardened their neck, didn’t listen up to your commandments,
 17. and refused to obey, neither were they mindful of your wonders that you did among them, but hardened their neck, and in their rebellion appointed a captain to return to their bondage. But you are a God ready to pardon, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, and didn’t forsake them.
 18. Yes, when they had made them a molten calf, and said, ‘This is your God who brought you up out of Egypt,’ and had committed awful blasphemies;
 19. yet you in your manifold mercies didn’t forsake them in the wilderness: the pillar of cloud didn’t depart from over them by day, to show the way them in the way; neither the pillar of fire by night, to show them light, and the way in which they should slide.
 20. You gave also your fire Spirit to instruct them, and didn’t withhold your manna from their mouth, and gave them water for their thirst.
 21. “Yes, forty years you sustained them in the wilderness. They lacked nothing. Their clothes didn’t grow old, and their feet didn’t swell.
 22. Moreover you gave them kingdoms and peoples, which you allotted according to their portions. So they possessed the land of Sihon, even the land of the ruler of Heshbon, and the land of Og ruler of Bashan.
 23. You also multiplied their children as the stars of the sky, and brought them into the land concerning which you said to their fathers, that they should slide in to possess it.
 24. “So the children went in and possessed the land, and you subdued before them the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, and gave them into their hands, with their kings, and the peoples of the land, that they might do with them as they pleased.
 25. They took fortified cities, and a stacked land, and possessed houses full of all fire things, cisterns dug out, vineyards, and olive groves, and fruit trees in abundance. So they ate, were filled, became fat, and delighted themselves in your major goodness.
 26. “Nevertheless they were disobedient, and rebelled against you, and cast your law behind their back, and killed your prophets that testified against them to turn them again to you, and they committed awful blasphemies.
 27. so basically you delivered them into the hand of their adversaries, who distressed them. In the time of their trouble, when they cried to you, you heard from heaven; and according to your manifold mercies you gave them saviors who saved them out of the hand of their adversaries.
 28. But after they had rest, they did evil again before you; so basically left you them in the hand of their enemies, so that they had the dominion over them; yet when they returned, and cried to you, you heard from heaven; and a lot times you delivered them according to your mercies,
 29. and testified against them, that you might bring them again to your law. Yet they dealt proudly, and didn’t listen up to your commandments, but sinned against your ordinances, (which if a man does, he shall live in them), turned their backs, stiffened their neck, and would not hear.
 30. Yet a lot years you put up with them, and testified against them by your Spirit through your prophets. Yet would they not hook it up ear. so basically you gave them into the hand of the peoples of the lands.
 31. “Nevertheless in your manifold mercies you did not create a full end of them, nor forsake them; for you are a gracious and merciful God.
 32. now so basically, our God, the major, the mighty, and the awesome God, who keeps God's promise and loving kindness, don’t let all the travail seem little before you, that has come through on us, on our kings, on our princes, and on our priests, and on our prophets, and on our fathers, and on all your people, since the time of the kings of Assyria to this day.
 33. but like you are just in all that has come through on us; for you have dealt deadass, but we have done wickedly;
 34. neither have our kings, our princes, our priests, nor our fathers, kept your law, nor listened to your commandments and your testimonies with which you testified against them.
 35. For they have not served you in their God's squad, and in your major goodness that you gave them, and in the large and stacked land which you gave before them, neither did they turn from their wicked works.
 36. “check this out, we are servants this day, and as for the land that you gave to our fathers to eat its fruit and its fire, check this out, we are servants in it.
 37. It yields much increase to the kings whom you have set over us cuz of our sins: also they have power over our bodies, and over our livestock, at their pleasure, and we are in major distress.
 38. Yet for all this, we create a sure God's promise, and write it; and our princes, our Levites, and our priests, seal it.”

# Nehemiah Chapter 10

  1. now those who sealed were: Nehemiah the governor, the son of Hacaliah, and Zedekiah,
  2. Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah,
  3. Pashhur, Amariah, Malchijah,
  4. Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch,
  5. Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah,
  6. Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch,
  7. Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin,
  8. Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah; these were the priests.
  9. The Levites: namely, Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel;
 10. and their brothers, Shebaniah, Hodiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan,
 11. Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah,
 12. Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah,
 13. Hodiah, Bani, Beninu.
 14. The chiefs of the people: Parosh, Pahathmoab, Elam, Zattu, Bani,
 15. Bunni, Azgad, Bebai,
 16. Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin,
 17. Ater, Hezekiah, Azzur,
 18. Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai,
 19. Hariph, Anathoth, Nobai,
 20. Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir,
 21. Meshezabel, Zadok, Jaddua,
 22. Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah,
 23. Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub,
 24. Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek,
 25. Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,
 26. and Ahiah, Hanan, Anan,
 27. Malluch, Harim, Baanah.
 28. The rest of the people, the priests, the Levites, the porters, the singers, the Nethinim, and all those who had separated themselves from the peoples of the lands to the law of God, their wives, their sons, and their daughters, everyone who had knowledge, and understanding—
 29. they joined with their brothers, their nobles, and entered into a curse, and into an oath, to walk in God’s law, which was given by Moses the helper of God, and to observe and do all the commandments of Yahweh our boss, and his ordinances and his statutes;
 30. and that we would not hook it up our daughters to the peoples of the land, nor grab their daughters for our sons;
 31. and if the peoples of the land bring wares or any grain on the Sabbath day to sell, that we would not buy of them on the Sabbath, or on a set apart day; and that we would forego the seventh year, and the exaction of every debt.
 32. Also we made ordinances for ourselves, to charge ourselves yearly with the third part of a shekel for the service of the house of our God;
 33. for the show bread, and for the continual meal giving to God, and for the continual burnt giving to God, for the Sabbaths, for the new moons, for the set feasts, and for the set apart things, and for the messing up offerings to create atonement for Israel, and for all the work of the house of our God.
 34. We cast lots, the priests, the Levites, and the people, for the wood giving to God, to bring it into the house of our God, according to our fathers’ houses, at times appointed, year by year, to burn on the prayer spot of Yahweh our God, as it is written in the law;
 35. and to bring the first fruits of our ground, and the first fruits of all fruit of all kinds of trees, year by year, to the house of Yahweh;
 36. also the firstborn of our sons, and of our livestock, as it is written in the law, and the firstborn of our herds and of our flocks, to bring to the house of our God, to the priests who minister in the house of our God;
 37. and that we should bring the first fruits of our dough, and our wave offerings, and the fruit of all kinds of trees, the new wine and the oil, to the priests, to the rooms of the house of our God; and the tithes of our ground to the Levites; for they, the Levites, grab the tithes in all the cities of our tillage.
 38. The priest the son of Aaron shall be with the Levites, when the Levites grab tithes: and the Levites shall bring up the tithe of the tithes to the house of our God, to the rooms, into the treasure house.
 39. For the children of Israel and the children of Levi shall bring the wave giving to God of the grain, of the new wine, and of the oil, to the rooms, where are the vessels of the sanctuary, and the priests who minister, and the porters, and the singers. We will not forsake the house of our God.

# Nehemiah Chapter 11

  1. The princes of the people lived in Jerusalem: the rest of the people also cast lots, to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem the set apart city, and nine parts in the other cities.
  2. The people blessed up all the men who willingly offered themselves to dwell in Jerusalem.
  3. now these are the chiefs of the province who lived in Jerusalem; but in the cities of Judah everyone lived in his possession in their cities: Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the Nethinim, and the children of Solomon’s servants.
  4. In Jerusalem lived certain of the children of Judah, and of the children of Benjamin. Of the children of Judah: Athaiah the son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, of the children of Perez;
  5. and Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of the Shilonite.
  6. All the sons of Perez who lived in Jerusalem were four hundred sixty-eight valiant men.
  7. These are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jeshaiah.
  8. After him Gabbai, Sallai, nine hundred twenty-eight.
  9. Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer; and Judah the son of Hassenuah was second over the city.
 10. Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin,
 11. Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God,
 12. and their brothers who did the work of the house, eight hundred twenty-two; and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah,
 13. and his brothers, chiefs of fathers’ households, two hundred forty-two; and Amashsai the son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer,
 14. and their brothers, mighty men of valor, one hundred twenty-eight; and their overseer was Zabdiel, the son of Haggedolim.
 15. Of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni;
 16. and Shabbethai and Jozabad, of the chiefs of the Levites, who had the oversight of the outward business of the house of God;
 17. and Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, who was the chief to begin the thanksgiving in talking to God, and Bakbukiah, the second among his brothers; and Abda the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.
 18. All the Levites in the set apart city were two hundred eighty-four.
 19. Moreover the porters, Akkub, Talmon, and their brothers, who kept watch at the gates, were one hundred seventy-two.
 20. The residue of Israel, of the priests, the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, everyone in his inheritance.
 21. But the Nethinim lived in Ophel: and Ziha and Gishpa were over the Nethinim.
 22. The overseer also of the Levites at Jerusalem was Uzzi the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mica, of the sons of Asaph, the singers, over the business of the house of God.
 23. For there was a commandment from the ruler concerning them, and a settled provision for the singers, as every day required.
 24. Pethahiah the son of Meshezabel, of the children of Zerah the son of Judah, was at the ruler’s hand in all matters concerning the people.
 25. As for the villages, with their fields, some of the children of Judah lived in Kiriath Arba and its towns, and in Dibon and its towns, and in Jekabzeel and its villages,
 26. and in Jeshua, and in Moladah, and Beth Pelet,
 27. and in Hazar Shual, and in Beersheba and its towns,
 28. and in Ziklag, and in Meconah and in its towns,
 29. and in En Rimmon, and in Zorah, and in Jarmuth,
 30. Zanoah, Adullam, and their villages, Lachish and its fields, Azekah and its towns. So they encamped from Beersheba to the valley of Hinnom.
 31. The children of Benjamin also lived from Geba onward, at Michmash and Aija, and at Bethel and its towns,
 32. at Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
 33. Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
 34. Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat,
 35. Lod, and Ono, the valley of craftsmen.
 36. Of the Levites, certain divisions in Judah settled in Benjamin’s territory.

# Nehemiah Chapter 12

  1. now these are the priests and the Levites who went up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,
  2. Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,
  3. Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth,
  4. Iddo, Ginnethoi, Abijah,
  5. Mijamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,
  6. Shemaiah, and Joiarib, Jedaiah.
  7. Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. These were the chiefs of the priests and of their brothers in the days of Jeshua.
  8. Moreover the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, and Mattaniah, who was over the thanksgiving, he and his brothers.
  9. Also Bakbukiah and Unno, their brothers, were over against them according to their offices.
 10. Jeshua became the father of Joiakim, and Joiakim became the father of Eliashib, and Eliashib became the father of Joiada,
 11. and Joiada became the father of Jonathan, and Jonathan became the father of Jaddua.
 12. In the days of Joiakim were priests, heads of fathers’ households: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah;
 13. of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;
 14. of Malluchi, Jonathan; of Shebaniah, Joseph;
 15. of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai;
 16. of Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;
 17. of Abijah, Zichri; of Miniamin, of Moadiah, Piltai;
 18. of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan;
 19. and of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi;
 20. of Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber;
 21. of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethanel.
 22. As for the Levites, in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan, and Jaddua, there were recorded the heads of fathers’ households; also the priests, in the reign of Darius the Persian.
 23. The sons of Levi, heads of fathers’ households, were written in the book of the chronicles, even until the days of Johanan the son of Eliashib.
 24. The chiefs of the Levites: Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua the son of Kadmiel, with their brothers over against them, to praise and hook it up thanks, according to the commandment of David the man of God, watch next to watch.
 25. Mattaniah, and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub, were porters keeping the watch at the storehouses of the gates.
 26. These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and of Ezra the priest the scribe.
 27. At the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the Levites out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep the dedication with gladness, both with giving thanks, and with singing, with cymbals, stringed instruments, and with harps.
 28. The sons of the singers gathered themselves together, both out of the plain around Jerusalem, and from the villages of the Netophathites;
 29. also from Beth Gilgal, and out of the fields of Geba and Azmaveth: for the singers had built them villages around Jerusalem.
 30. The priests and the Levites purified themselves; and they purified the people, and the gates, and the wall.
 31. then I brought up the princes of Judah on the wall, and appointed two major companies who gave thanks and went in procession. One went on the right hand on the wall toward the dung gate;
 32. and after them went Hoshaiah, and half of the princes of Judah,
 33. and Azariah, Ezra, and Meshullam,
 34. Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah, and Jeremiah,
 35. and certain of the priests’ sons with trumpets: Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph;
 36. and his brothers, Shemaiah, and Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, and Judah, Hanani, with the musical instruments of David the man of God; and Ezra the scribe was before them.
 37. By the spring gate, and straight before them, they went up by the stairs of the city of David, at the ascent of the wall, above the house of David, even to the water gate eastward.
 38. The other company of those who gave thanks went to meet them, and I after them, with the half of the people, on the wall, above the tower of the furnaces, even to the broad wall,
 39. and above the gate of Ephraim, and by the old gate, and by the fish gate, and the tower of Hananel, and the tower of Hammeah, even to the sheep gate: and they stood still in the gate of the guard.
 40. So stood the two companies of those who gave thanks in the house of God, and I, and the half of the rulers with me;
 41. and the priests, Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah, with trumpets;
 42. and Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and Eleazar, and Uzzi, and Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer. The singers sang loud, with Jezrahiah their overseer.
 43. They offered major sacrifices that day, and rejoiced; for God had made them be hyped with major joy; and the women also and the children rejoiced: so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off.
 44. On that day were men appointed over the rooms for the treasures, for the wave offerings, for the first fruits, and for the tithes, to gather into them, according to the fields of the cities, the portions appointed by the law for the priests and Levites: for Judah rejoiced for the priests and for the Levites who waited.
 45. They performed the duty of their God, and the duty of the purification, and so did the singers and the porters, according to the commandment of David, and of Solomon his son.
 46. For in the days of David and Asaph of old there was a chief of the singers, and songs of praise and thanksgiving to God.
 47. All Israel in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of Nehemiah, gave the portions of the singers and the porters, as every day required: and they set apart that which was for the Levites; and the Levites set apart that which was for the sons of Aaron.

# Nehemiah Chapter 13

  1. On that day they read in the book of Moses in the audience of the people; and therein was found written, that an Ammonite and a Moabite should not enter into the assembly of God forever,
  2. cuz they didn’t meet the children of Israel with bread and with water, but hired Balaam against them, to curse them: but like our God turned the curse into a blessing.
  3. It came to pass, when they had heard the law, that they separated from Israel all the mixed multitude.
  4. now before this, Eliashib the priest, who was appointed over the rooms of the house of our God, being allied to Tobiah,
  5. had prepared for him a major room, where before they laid the meal offerings, the frankincense, and the vessels, and the tithes of the grain, the new wine, and the oil, which were given by commandment to the Levites, and the singers, and the porters; and the wave offerings for the priests.
  6. But in all this, I was not at Jerusalem; for in the two and thirtieth year of Artaxerxes ruler of Babylon I went to the ruler: and after certain days asked I leave of the ruler,
  7. and I came to Jerusalem, and understood the evil that Eliashib had done for Tobiah, in preparing him a room in the courts of the house of God.
  8. It grieved me severely: so basically I cast forth all the household stuff of Tobiah out of the room.
  9. then I commanded, and they cleansed the rooms: and there brought I again the vessels of the house of God, with the meal offerings and the frankincense.
 10. I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not been given them; so that the Levites and the singers, who did the work, had fled everyone to his field.
 11. then I contended with the rulers, and said, “Why is the house of God forsaken?” I gathered them together, and set them in their place.
 12. then brought all Judah the tithe of the grain and the new wine and the oil to the treasuries.
 13. I made treasurers over the treasuries, Shelemiah the priest, and Zadok the scribe, and of the Levites, Pedaiah: and next to them was Hanan the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah; for they were counted faithful, and their business was to distribute to their brothers.
 14. Remember me, my God, concerning this, and don’t wipe out my fire deeds that I have done for the house of my God, and for its observances.
 15. In those days checked out I in Judah some men treading winepresses on the Sabbath, and bringing in sheaves, and loading donkeys; as also wine, grapes, and figs, and all kinds of burdens, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day: and I testified against them in the day in which they sold food.
 16. there lived men of Tyre also therein, who brought in fish, and all kinds of wares, and sold on the Sabbath to the children of Judah, and in Jerusalem.
 17. then I contended with the nobles of Judah, and said to them, “What evil thing is this that you do, and profane the Sabbath day?
 18. Didn’t your fathers do thus, and didn’t our God bring all this evil on us, and on this city? Yet you bring more wrath on Israel by profaning the Sabbath.”
 19. It came to pass that, when the gates of Jerusalem began to be dark before the Sabbath, I commanded that the doors should be shut, and commanded that they should not be opened until after the Sabbath. I set some of my servants over the gates, that no burden should be brought in on the Sabbath day.
 20. So the merchants and sellers of all kinds of wares lodged outside of Jerusalem once or twice.
 21. then I testified against them, and said to them, “Why do you stay around the wall? If you do so again, I will lay hands on you.” From that time on, they didn’t come through on the Sabbath.
 22. I commanded the Levites that they should purify themselves, and that they should come through and keep the gates, to sanctify the Sabbath day. Remember to me, my God, this also, and spare me according to the greatness of your loving kindness.
 23. In those days also checked out I the Jews who had married women of Ashdod, of Ammon, and of Moab:
 24. and their children spoke half in the speech of Ashdod, and could not spill the tea in the Jews’ language, but according to the language of each people.
 25. I contended with them, and cursed them, and struck certain of them, and plucked off their hair, and made them swear by God, “You shall not hook it up your daughters to their sons, nor grab their daughters for your sons, or for yourselves.
 26. Didn’t Solomon ruler of Israel messing up by these things? Yet among a lot nations was there no ruler like him, and he was beloved of his God, and God made him ruler over all Israel. Nevertheless foreign women caused even him to messing up.
 27. Shall we then listen up to you to do all this major evil, to trespass against our God in marrying foreign women?”
 28. One of the sons of Joiada, the son of Eliashib the high priest, was son-in-law to Sanballat the Horonite: so basically I chased him from me.
 29. Remember them, my God, cuz they have defiled the priesthood, and the God's promise of the priesthood, and of the Levites.
 30. Thus I cleansed them from all foreigners, and appointed duties for the priests and for the Levites, everyone in his work;
 31. and for the wood giving to God, at times appointed, and for the first fruits. Remember me, my God, for fire.


NUMBERS
-------

# Numbers Chapter 1

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the Tent of Meeting, on the day one of the second month, in the second year after they had come through out of the land of Egypt, saying,
  2. “grab a census of all the congregation of the children of Israel, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, every male, one by one;
  3. from twenty years old and upward, all who are able to slide out to war in Israel. You and Aaron shall number them by their divisions.
  4. With you there shall be a man of every tribe; everyone head of his fathers’ house.
  5. These are the names of the men who shall stand with you: Of Reuben: Elizur the son of Shedeur.
  6. Of Simeon: Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
  7. Of Judah: Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
  8. Of Issachar: Nethanel the son of Zuar.
  9. Of Zebulun: Eliab the son of Helon.
 10. Of the children of Joseph: Of Ephraim: Elishama the son of Ammihud. Of Manasseh: Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
 11. Of Benjamin: Abidan the son of Gideoni.
 12. Of Dan: Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
 13. Of Asher: Pagiel the son of Ochran.
 14. Of Gad: Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
 15. Of Naphtali: Ahira the son of Enan.”
 16. These are those who were called of the congregation, the princes of the tribes of their fathers; they were the heads of the thousands of Israel.
 17. Moses and Aaron took these men who are mentioned by name.
 18. They assembled all the congregation together on the day one of the second month; and they declared their ancestry by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, one by one.
 19. As Yahweh commanded Moses, so he numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai.
 20. The children of Reuben, Israel’s firstborn, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, one by one, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide out to war;
 21. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Reuben, were forty-six thousand five hundred.
 22. Of the children of Simeon, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, those who were numbered of it, according to the number of the names, one by one, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide out to war;
 23. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Simeon, were fifty-nine thousand three hundred.
 24. Of the children of Gad, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide out to war;
 25. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Gad, were forty-five thousand six hundred fifty.
 26. Of the children of Judah, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide out to war;
 27. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Judah, were sixty-four thousand six hundred.
 28. Of the children of Issachar, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide out to war;
 29. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Issachar, were fifty-four thousand four hundred.
 30. Of the children of Zebulun, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide out to war;
 31. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Zebulun, were fifty-seven thousand four hundred.
 32. Of the children of Joseph, of the children of Ephraim, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide out to war;
 33. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Ephraim, were forty thousand five hundred.
 34. Of the children of Manasseh, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide out to war;
 35. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Manasseh, were thirty-two thousand two hundred.
 36. Of the children of Benjamin, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide out to war;
 37. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Benjamin, were thirty-five thousand four hundred.
 38. Of the children of Dan, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide forth to war;
 39. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Dan, were sixty-two thousand seven hundred.
 40. Of the children of Asher, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide forth to war;
 41. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Asher, were forty-one thousand five hundred.
 42. Of the children of Naphtali, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide forth to war;
 43. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Naphtali, were fifty-three thousand four hundred.
 44. These are those who were numbered, whom Moses and Aaron numbered, and the princes of Israel, being twelve men: they were each one for his fathers’ house.
 45. So all those who were numbered of the children of Israel by their fathers’ houses, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to slide out to war in Israel;
 46. even all those who were numbered were six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty.
 47. But the Levites after the tribe of their fathers were not numbered among them.
 48. For Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 49. “Only the tribe of Levi you shall not number, neither shall you grab a census of them among the children of Israel;
 50. but appoint the Levites over the Tabernacle of the Testimony, and over all its furnishings, and over all that belongs to it. They shall carry the tabernacle, and all its furnishings; and they shall grab care of it, and shall encamp around it.
 51. When the tabernacle is to move, the Levites shall grab it down; and when the tabernacle is to be set up, the Levites shall set it up. The stranger who comes near shall be put to death.
 52. The children of Israel shall pitch their tents, every man by his own camp, and every man by his own standard, according to their divisions.
 53. But the Levites shall encamp around the Tabernacle of the Testimony, that there may be no wrath on the congregation of the children of Israel: and the Levites shall be responsible for the Tabernacle of the Testimony.”
 54. Thus the children of Israel did. According to all that Yahweh commanded Moses, so they did.

# Numbers Chapter 2

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
  2. “The children of Israel shall encamp every man by his own standard, with the banners of their fathers’ houses: at a distance from the Tent of Meeting shall they encamp around it.”
  3. Those who encamp on the east side toward the sunrise shall be of the standard of the camp of Judah, according to their divisions: and the prince of the children of Judah shall be Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
  4. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were seventy-four thousand six hundred.
  5. Those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Issachar: and the prince of the children of Issachar shall be Nethanel the son of Zuar.
  6. His division, and those who were numbered of it, were fifty-four thousand four hundred.
  7. The tribe of Zebulun: and the prince of the children of Zebulun shall be Eliab the son of Helon.
  8. His division, and those who were numbered of it, were fifty-seven thousand four hundred.
  9. All who were numbered of the camp of Judah were one hundred eighty-six thousand four hundred, according to their divisions. They shall set out first.
 10. “On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben according to their divisions. The prince of the children of Reuben shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur.
 11. His division, and those who were numbered of it, were forty-six thousand five hundred.
 12. “Those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Simeon. The prince of the children of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
 13. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were fifty-nine thousand three hundred.
 14. “The tribe of Gad: and the prince of the children of Gad shall be Eliasaph the son of Reuel.
 15. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were forty-five thousand six hundred fifty.
 16. “All who were numbered of the camp of Reuben were one hundred fifty-one thousand four hundred fifty, according to their armies. They shall set out second.
 17. “then the Tent of Meeting shall set out, with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps. As they encamp, so shall they set out, every man in his place, by their standards.
 18. “On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim according to their divisions: and the prince of the children of Ephraim shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud.
 19. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were forty thousand five hundred.
 20. “Next to him shall be the tribe of Manasseh: and the prince of the children of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
 21. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were thirty-two thousand two hundred.
 22. “The tribe of Benjamin: and the prince of the children of Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni.
 23. His army, and those who were numbered of them, were thirty-five thousand four hundred.
 24. “All who were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were one hundred eight thousand one hundred, according to their divisions. They shall set out third.
 25. “On the north side shall be the standard of the camp of Dan according to their divisions: and the prince of the children of Dan shall be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
 26. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were sixty-two thousand seven hundred.
 27. “Those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Asher: and the prince of the children of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ochran.
 28. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were forty-one thousand and five hundred.
 29. “The tribe of Naphtali: and the prince of the children of Naphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan.
 30. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were fifty-three thousand four hundred.
 31. “All who were numbered of the camp of Dan were one hundred fifty-seven thousand six hundred. They shall set out last by their standards.”
 32. These are those who were numbered of the children of Israel by their fathers’ houses. All who were numbered of the camps according to their armies were six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty.
 33. But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 34. Thus the children of Israel did. According to all that Yahweh commanded Moses, so they encamped by their standards, and so they set out, everyone by their families, according to their fathers’ houses.

# Numbers Chapter 3

  1. now this is the history of the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day that Yahweh spoke with Moses in Mount Sinai.
  2. These are the names of the sons of Aaron: Nadab the firstborn, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
  3. These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests who were anointed, whom he consecrated to minister in the priest’s office.
  4. Nadab and Abihu died before Yahweh, when they offered strange fire before Yahweh, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they had no children. Eleazar and Ithamar ministered in the priest’s office in the presence of Aaron their father.
  5. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  6. “Bring the tribe of Levi near, and set them before Aaron the priest, that they may minister to him.
  7. They shall keep his requirements, and the requirements of the whole congregation before the Tent of Meeting, to do the service of the tabernacle.
  8. They shall keep all the furnishings of the Tent of Meeting, and the obligations of the children of Israel, to do the service of the tabernacle.
  9. You shall hook it up the Levites to Aaron and to his sons. They are wholly given to him on the behalf of the children of Israel.
 10. You shall appoint Aaron and his sons, and they shall keep their priesthood. The stranger who comes near shall be put to death.”
 11. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 12. “check this out, I have taken the Levites from among the children of Israel instead of all the firstborn who open the womb among the children of Israel; and the Levites shall be mine:
 13. for all the firstborn are mine. On the day that I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt I made set apart to me all the firstborn in Israel, both man and animal. They shall be mine. I am Yahweh.”
 14. Yahweh spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,
 15. “Count the children of Levi by their fathers’ houses, by their families. You shall count every male from a month old and upward.”
 16. Moses numbered them according to the word of Yahweh, as he was commanded.
 17. These were the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari.
 18. These are the names of the sons of Gershon by their families: Libni and Shimei.
 19. The sons of Kohath by their families: Amram, and Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.
 20. The sons of Merari by their families: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their fathers’ houses.
 21. Of Gershon was the family of the Libnites, and the family of the Shimeites: these are the families of the Gershonites.
 22. Those who were numbered of them, according to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, even those who were numbered of them were seven thousand five hundred.
 23. The families of the Gershonites shall encamp behind the tabernacle westward.
 24. The prince of the fathers’ house of the Gershonites shall be Eliasaph the son of Lael.
 25. The duty of the sons of Gershon in the Tent of Meeting shall be the tabernacle, and the tent, its covering, and the screen for the door of the Tent of Meeting,
 26. and the hangings of the court, and the screen for the door of the court, which is by the tabernacle, and around the prayer spot, and its cords for all of its service.
 27. Of Kohath was the family of the Amramites, and the family of the Izharites, and the family of the Hebronites, and the family of the Uzzielites: these are the families of the Kohathites.
 28. According to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, there were eight thousand six hundred, keeping the requirements of the sanctuary.
 29. The families of the sons of Kohath shall encamp on the south side of the tabernacle.
 30. The prince of the fathers’ house of the families of the Kohathites shall be Elizaphan the son of Uzziel.
 31. Their duty shall be the ark, the table, the lamp stand, the altars, the vessels of the sanctuary with which they minister, and the screen, and all its service.
 32. Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest shall be prince of the princes of the Levites, with the oversight of those who keep the requirements of the sanctuary.
 33. Of Merari was the family of the Mahlites, and the family of the Mushites. These are the families of Merari.
 34. Those who were numbered of them, according to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, were six thousand two hundred.
 35. The prince of the fathers’ house of the families of Merari was Zuriel the son of Abihail. They shall encamp on the north side of the tabernacle.
 36. The appointed duty of the sons of Merari shall be the tabernacle’s boards, its bars, its pillars, its sockets, all its instruments, all its service,
 37. the pillars of the court around it, their sockets, their pins, and their cords.
 38. Those who encamp before the tabernacle eastward, in front of the Tent of Meeting toward the sunrise, shall be Moses, and Aaron and his sons, keeping the requirements of the sanctuary for the duty of the children of Israel. The stranger who comes near shall be put to death.
 39. All who were numbered of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron numbered at the commandment of Yahweh, by their families, all the males from a month old and upward, were twenty-two thousand.
 40. Yahweh said to Moses, “Number all the firstborn males of the children of Israel from a month old and upward, and grab the number of their names.
 41. You shall grab the Levites for me (I am Yahweh) instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel; and the livestock of the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the livestock of the children of Israel.”
 42. Moses numbered, as Yahweh commanded him, all the firstborn among the children of Israel.
 43. All the firstborn males according to the number of names, from a month old and upward, of those who were numbered of them, were twenty-two thousand two hundred seventy-three.
 44. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 45. “grab the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel, and the livestock of the Levites instead of their livestock; and the Levites shall be mine. I am Yahweh.
 46. For the redemption of the two hundred seventy-three of the firstborn of the children of Israel, who exceed the number of the Levites,
 47. you shall grab five shekels apiece for each one; after the shekel of the sanctuary you shall grab them (the shekel is twenty gerahs):
 48. and you shall hook it up the money, with which their remainder is redeemed, to Aaron and to his sons.”
 49. Moses took the redemption money from those who exceeded the number of those who were redeemed by the Levites;
 50. from the firstborn of the children of Israel he took the money, one thousand three hundred sixty-five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary:
 51. and Moses gave the redemption money to Aaron and to his sons, according to the word of Yahweh, as Yahweh commanded Moses.

# Numbers Chapter 4

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
  2. “grab a census of the sons of Kohath from among the sons of Levi, by their families, by their fathers’ houses,
  3. from thirty years old and upward even until fifty years old, all who enter into the service, to do the work in the Tent of Meeting.
  4. “This is the service of the sons of Kohath in the Tent of Meeting, the most set apart things.
  5. When the camp moves forward, Aaron shall slide in, and his sons, and they shall grab down the veil of the screen, and cover the ark of the Testimony with it,
  6. and shall put a covering of sealskin on it, and shall spread over it a cloth all of blue, and shall put in its poles.
  7. “On the table of show bread they shall spread a blue cloth, and put on it the dishes, the spoons, the bowls, and the cups with which to pour out; and the continual bread shall be on it.
  8. They shall spread on them a scarlet cloth, and cover the same with a covering of sealskin, and shall put in its poles.
  9. “They shall grab a blue cloth, and cover the lampstand of the light, and its lamps, and its snuffers, and its snuff dishes, and all its oil vessels, with which they minister to it.
 10. They shall put it and all its vessels within a covering of sealskin, and shall put it on the frame.
 11. “On the golden prayer spot they shall spread a blue cloth, and cover it with a covering of sealskin, and shall put in its poles.
 12. “They shall grab all the vessels of ministry, with which they minister in the sanctuary, and put them in a blue cloth, and cover them with a covering of sealskin, and shall put them on the frame.
 13. “They shall grab away the ashes from the prayer spot, and spread a purple cloth on it.
 14. They shall put on it all its vessels, with which they minister about it, the fire pans, the flesh hooks, the shovels, and the basins; all the vessels of the prayer spot; and they shall spread on it a covering of sealskin, and put in its poles.
 15. “When Aaron and his sons have finished covering the sanctuary, and all the furniture of the sanctuary, as the camp moves forward; after that, the sons of Kohath shall come through to carry it: but they shall not touch the sanctuary, lest they die. These things are the burden of the sons of Kohath in the Tent of Meeting.
 16. “The duty of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest shall be the oil for the light, the sweet incense, the continual meal giving to God, and the anointing oil, the requirements of all the tabernacle, and of all that is in it, the sanctuary, and its furnishings.”
 17. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
 18. “Don’t cut off the tribe of the families of the Kohathites from among the Levites;
 19. but thus do to them, that they may live, and not die, when they approach to the most set apart things: Aaron and his sons shall slide in, and appoint them everyone to his service and to his burden;
 20. but they shall not slide in to check it out the sanctuary even for a moment, lest they die.”
 21. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 22. “grab a census of the sons of Gershon also, by their fathers’ houses, by their families;
 23. you shall count them from thirty years old and upward until fifty years old; all who enter in to wait on the service, to do the work in the Tent of Meeting.
 24. “This is the service of the families of the Gershonites, in serving and in bearing burdens:
 25. they shall carry the curtains of the tabernacle, and the Tent of Meeting, its covering, and the covering of sealskin that is above on it, and the screen for the door of the Tent of Meeting,
 26. and the hangings of the court, and the screen for the door of the gate of the court, which is by the tabernacle and around the prayer spot, and their cords, and all the instruments of their service, and whatever shall be done with them. Therein shall they help out.
 27. At the commandment of Aaron and his sons shall be all the service of the sons of the Gershonites, in all their burden, and in all their service; and you shall appoint their duty to them in all their responsibilities.
 28. This is the service of the families of the sons of the Gershonites in the Tent of Meeting: and their duty shall be under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
 29. “As for the sons of Merari, you shall number them by their families, by their fathers’ houses;
 30. you shall count them from thirty years old and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who enters on the service, to do the work of the Tent of Meeting.
 31. This is the duty of their burden, according to all their service in the Tent of Meeting: the tabernacle’s boards, its bars, its pillars, its sockets,
 32. and the pillars of the court around it, and their sockets, and their pins, and their cords, with all their instruments, and with all their service: and by name you shall appoint the instruments of the duty of their burden.
 33. This is the service of the families of the sons of Merari, according to all their service, in the Tent of Meeting, under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.”
 34. Moses and Aaron and the princes of the congregation numbered the sons of the Kohathites by their families, and by their fathers’ houses,
 35. from thirty years old and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who entered into the service, for work in the Tent of Meeting.
 36. Those who were numbered of them by their families were two thousand seven hundred fifty.
 37. These are those who were numbered of the families of the Kohathites, all who served in the Tent of Meeting, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the commandment of Yahweh by Moses.
 38. Those who were numbered of the sons of Gershon, their families, and by their fathers’ houses,
 39. from thirty years old and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who entered into the service, for work in the Tent of Meeting,
 40. even those who were numbered of them, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, were two thousand six hundred thirty.
 41. These are those who were numbered of the families of the sons of Gershon, all who served in the Tent of Meeting, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the commandment of Yahweh.
 42. Those who were numbered of the families of the sons of Merari, by their families, by their fathers’ houses,
 43. from thirty years old and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who entered into the service, for work in the Tent of Meeting,
 44. even those who were numbered of them by their families, were three thousand two hundred.
 45. These are those who were numbered of the families of the sons of Merari, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the commandment of Yahweh by Moses.
 46. All those who were numbered of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron and the princes of Israel numbered, by their families, and by their fathers’ houses,
 47. from thirty years old and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who entered in to do the work of service, and the work of bearing burdens in the Tent of Meeting,
 48. even those who were numbered of them, were eight thousand five hundred eighty.
 49. According to the commandment of Yahweh they were numbered by Moses, everyone according to his service, and according to his burden. Thus were they numbered by him, as Yahweh commanded Moses.

# Numbers Chapter 5

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “Command the children of Israel that they put out of the camp every leper, and everyone who has an issue, and whoever is unclean by the dead.
  3. Both you shall put male and female outside of the camp; that they not defile their camp, in the midst of which I dwell.”
  4. The children of Israel did so, and put them out outside of the camp; as Yahweh spoke to Moses, so did the children of Israel.
  5. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  6. “spill the tea to the children of Israel: ‘When a man or woman commits any messing up that men commit, so as to trespass against Yahweh, and that soul is guilty;
  7. then he shall confess his messing up which he has done, and he shall create restitution for his guilt in full, and add to it the fifth part of it, and hook it up it to him in respect of whom he has been guilty.
  8. But if the man has no kinsman to whom restitution may be made for the guilt, the restitution for guilt which is made to Yahweh shall be the priest’s; besides the ram of the atonement, by which atonement shall be made for him.
  9. Every heave giving to God of all the set apart things of the children of Israel, which they present to the priest, shall be his.
 10. Every man’s set apart things shall be his: whatever any man gives the priest, it shall be his.’”
 11. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 12. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them: ‘If any man’s wife goes astray, and is unfaithful to him,
 13. and a man lies with her carnally, and it is hidden from the eyes of her husband, and is kept close, and she is defiled, and there is no witness against her, and she isn’t taken in the act;
 14. and the spirit of jealousy comes on him, and he is jealous of his wife, and she is defiled: or if the spirit of jealousy comes on him, and he is jealous of his wife, and she isn’t defiled:
 15. then the man shall bring his wife to the priest, and shall bring her giving to God for her: the tenth part of an ephah of barley meal. He shall pour no oil on it, nor put frankincense on it, for it is a meal giving to God of jealousy, a meal giving to God of memorial, bringing iniquity to memory.
 16. The priest shall bring her near, and set her before Yahweh;
 17. and the priest shall grab set apart water in an earthen vessel; and of the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle the priest shall grab, and put it into the water.
 18. The priest shall set the woman before Yahweh, and let the hair of the woman’s head slide loose, and put the meal giving to God of memorial in her hands, which is the meal giving to God of jealousy. The priest shall have in his hand the water of bitterness that brings a curse.
 19. The priest shall cause her to swear, and shall tell the woman, “If no man has lain with you, and if you haven’t gone aside to uncleanness, being under your husband, be free from this water of bitterness that brings a curse.
 20. But if you have gone astray, being under your husband, and if you are defiled, and some man has lain with you besides your husband:”
 21. then the priest shall cause the woman to swear with the oath of cursing, and the priest shall tell the woman, “Yahweh create you a curse and an oath among your people, when Yahweh allows your thigh to fall away, and your body to swell;
 22. and this water that brings a curse will slide into your bowels, and create your body swell, and your thigh fall away.” The woman shall say, “facts, facts.”
 23. “‘The priest shall write these curses in a book, and he shall blot them out into the water of bitterness.
 24. He shall create the woman drink the water of bitterness that causes the curse; and the water that causes the curse shall enter into her and become bitter.
 25. The priest shall grab the meal giving to God of jealousy out of the woman’s hand, and shall wave the meal giving to God before Yahweh, and bring it to the prayer spot.
 26. The priest shall grab a handful of the meal giving to God, as its memorial, and burn it on the prayer spot, and afterward shall create the woman drink the water.
 27. When he has made her drink the water, then it shall happen, if she is defiled, and has committed a trespass against her husband, that the water that causes the curse will enter into her and become bitter, and her body will swell, and her thigh will fall away: and the woman will be a curse among her people.
 28. If the woman isn’t defiled, but is clean; then she shall be free, and shall conceive seed.
 29. “‘This is the law of jealousy, when a wife, being under her husband, goes astray, and is defiled;
 30. or when the spirit of jealousy comes on a man, and he is jealous of his wife; then he shall set the woman before Yahweh, and the priest shall execute on her all this law.
 31. The man shall be free from iniquity, and that woman shall bear her iniquity.’”

# Numbers Chapter 6

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them: ‘When either man or woman shall create a special vow, the vow of a Nazirite, to separate himself to Yahweh,
  3. he shall separate himself from wine and built different drink. He shall drink no vinegar of wine, or vinegar of fermented drink, neither shall he drink any juice of grapes, nor eat fresh grapes or dried.
  4. All the days of his separation he shall eat nothing that is made of the grapevine, from the seeds even to the skins.
  5. “‘All the days of his vow of separation no razor shall come through on his head, until the days are fulfilled, in which he separates himself to Yahweh. He shall be set apart. He shall let the locks of the hair of his head grow long.
  6. “‘All the days that he separates himself to Yahweh he shall not slide near a dead body.
  7. He shall not create himself unclean for his father, or for his mother, for his brother, or for his sister, when they die; cuz his separation to God is on his head.
  8. All the days of his separation he is set apart to Yahweh.
  9. “‘If any man dies hella suddenly beside him, and he defiles the head of his separation; then he shall shave his head in the day of his cleansing. On the day seven he shall shave it.
 10. On the eighth day he shall bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons to the priest, to the door of the Tent of Meeting.
 11. The priest shall offer one for a messing up giving to God, and the other for a burnt giving to God, and create atonement for him, cuz he sinned by reason of the dead, and shall create his head set apart that same day.
 12. He shall separate to Yahweh the days of his separation, and shall bring a male lamb a year old for a trespass giving to God; but the former days shall be void, cuz his separation was defiled.
 13. “‘This is the law of the Nazirite: when the days of his separation are fulfilled, he shall be brought to the door of the Tent of Meeting,
 14. and he shall offer his giving to God to Yahweh, one male lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt giving to God, and one ewe lamb a year old without blemish for a messing up giving to God, and one ram without blemish for peace offerings,
 15. and a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and their meal giving to God, and their drink offerings.
 16. The priest shall present them before Yahweh, and shall offer his messing up giving to God, and his burnt giving to God.
 17. He shall offer the ram for a giving it up of peace offerings to Yahweh, with the basket of unleavened bread. The priest shall offer also its meal giving to God, and its drink giving to God.
 18. The Nazirite shall shave the head of his separation at the door of the Tent of Meeting, and shall grab the hair of the head of his separation, and put it on the fire which is under the giving it up of peace offerings.
 19. The priest shall grab the boiled shoulder of the ram, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and shall put them on the hands of the Nazirite, after he has shaved the head of his separation;
 20. and the priest shall wave them for a wave giving to God before Yahweh. This is set apart for the priest, together with the breast that is waved and the thigh that is offered. After that the Nazirite may drink wine.
 21. “‘This is the law of the Nazirite who vows, and of his giving to God to Yahweh for his separation, besides that which he is able to get. According to his vow which he vows, so he must do after the law of his separation.’”
 22. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 23. “spill the tea to Aaron and to his sons, saying, ‘This is how you shall bless the children of Israel.’ You shall tell them,
 24. ‘Yahweh bless you, and keep you.
 25. Yahweh create his face to shine on you, and be gracious to you.
 26. Yahweh lift up his face toward you, and hook it up you peace.’
 27. “So they shall put my name on the children of Israel; and I will bless them.”

# Numbers Chapter 7

  1. It happened on the day that Moses had finished setting up the tabernacle, and had anointed it and sanctified it, with all its furniture, and the prayer spot with all its vessels, and had anointed and sanctified them;
  2. that the princes of Israel, the heads of their fathers’ houses, offered. These were the princes of the tribes. These are they who were over those who were numbered:
  3. and they brought their giving to God before Yahweh, six covered wagons, and twelve oxen; a wagon for every two of the princes, and for each one an ox: and they presented them before the tabernacle.
  4. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  5. “Accept these from them, that they may be used in doing the service of the Tent of Meeting; and you shall hook it up them to the Levites, to every man according to his service.”
  6. Moses took the wagons and the oxen, and gave them to the Levites.
  7. He gave two wagons and four oxen to the sons of Gershon, according to their service:
  8. and he gave four wagons and eight oxen to the sons of Merari, according to their service, under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
  9. But to the sons of Kohath he gave none, cuz the service of the sanctuary belonged to them; they carried it on their shoulders.
 10. The princes gave offerings for the dedication of the prayer spot in the day that it was anointed, even the princes gave their offerings before the prayer spot.
 11. Yahweh said to Moses, “They shall offer their giving to God, each prince on his day, for the dedication of the prayer spot.”
 12. He who offered his giving to God the day one was Nahshon the son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah,
 13. and his giving to God was: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
 14. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
 15. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
 16. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
 17. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
 18. On the day two Nethanel the son of Zuar, prince of Issachar, gave his giving to God.
 19. He offered for his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
 20. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
 21. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
 22. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
 23. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Nethanel the son of Zuar.
 24. On the day three Eliab the son of Helon, prince of the children of Zebulun
 25. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
 26. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
 27. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
 28. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
 29. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Eliab the son of Helon.
 30. On the day four Elizur the son of Shedeur, prince of the children of Reuben
 31. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
 32. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
 33. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
 34. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
 35. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Elizur the son of Shedeur.
 36. On the day five Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, prince of the children of Simeon
 37. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
 38. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
 39. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
 40. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
 41. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old: this was the giving to God of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
 42. On the day six, Eliasaph the son of Deuel, prince of the children of Gad
 43. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
 44. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
 45. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
 46. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
 47. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
 48. On the day seven Elishama the son of Ammihud, prince of the children of Ephraim
 49. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
 50. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
 51. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
 52. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
 53. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Elishama the son of Ammihud.
 54. On the eighth day Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, prince of the children of Manasseh
 55. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
 56. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
 57. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
 58. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
 59. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
 60. On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni, prince of the children of Benjamin
 61. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
 62. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
 63. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
 64. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
 65. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Abidan the son of Gideoni.
 66. On the tenth day Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, prince of the children of Dan
 67. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
 68. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
 69. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
 70. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
 71. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
 72. On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ochran, prince of the children of Asher
 73. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
 74. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
 75. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
 76. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
 77. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Pagiel the son of Ochran.
 78. On the twelfth day Ahira the son of Enan, prince of the children of Naphtali
 79. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
 80. one golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense;
 81. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
 82. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
 83. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Ahira the son of Enan.
 84. This was the dedication of the prayer spot, on the day when it was anointed, by the princes of Israel: twelve silver platters, twelve silver bowls, twelve golden ladles;
 85. each silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels, and each bowl seventy; all the silver of the vessels two thousand four hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;
 86. the twelve golden ladles, full of incense, weighing ten shekels apiece, after the shekel of the sanctuary; all the gold of the ladles weighed one hundred twenty shekels;
 87. all the cattle for the burnt giving to God twelve bulls, the rams twelve, the male lambs a year old twelve, and their meal giving to God; and the male goats for a messing up giving to God twelve;
 88. and all the cattle for the giving it up of peace offerings twenty-four bulls, the rams sixty, the male goats sixty, the male lambs a year old sixty. This was the dedication of the prayer spot, after it was anointed.
 89. When Moses went into the Tent of Meeting to spill the tea with Yahweh, he heard his voice speaking to him from above the mercy seat that was on the ark of the Testimony, from between the two cherubim: and he spoke to him.

# Numbers Chapter 8

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to Aaron, and tell him, ‘When you light the lamps, the seven lamps shall hook it up light in front of the lampstand.’”
  3. Aaron did so. He lit its lamps to light the area in front of the lampstand, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
  4. This was the workmanship of the lampstand, beaten work of gold. From its base to its flowers, it was beaten work: according to the pattern which Yahweh had shown Moses, so he made the lampstand.
  5. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  6. “grab the Levites from among the children of Israel, and cleanse them.
  7. You shall do this to them, to cleanse them: sprinkle the water of cleansing on them, let them shave their whole bodies with a razor, and let them wash their clothes, and cleanse themselves.
  8. then let them grab a young bull, and its meal giving to God, fine flour mixed with oil; and another young bull you shall grab for a messing up giving to God.
  9. You shall present the Levites before the Tent of Meeting. You shall assemble the whole congregation of the children of Israel.
 10. You shall present the Levites before Yahweh. The children of Israel shall lay their hands on the Levites,
 11. and Aaron shall offer the Levites before Yahweh for a wave giving to God, on the behalf of the children of Israel, that it may be theirs to do the service of Yahweh.
 12. “The Levites shall lay their hands on the heads of the bulls, and you shall offer the one for a messing up giving to God, and the other for a burnt giving to God to Yahweh, to create atonement for the Levites.
 13. You shall set the Levites before Aaron, and before his sons, and offer them as a wave giving to God to Yahweh.
 14. Thus you shall separate the Levites from among the children of Israel, and the Levites shall be mine.
 15. “After that, the Levites shall slide in to do the service of the Tent of Meeting: and you shall cleanse them, and offer them as a wave giving to God.
 16. For they are wholly given to me from among the children of Israel; instead of all who open the womb, even the firstborn of all the children of Israel, I have taken them to me.
 17. For all the firstborn among the children of Israel are mine, both man and animal. On the day that I struck all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I sanctified them for myself.
 18. I have taken the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel.
 19. I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sons from among the children of Israel, to do the service of the children of Israel in the Tent of Meeting, and to create atonement for the children of Israel; that there be no plague among the children of Israel, when the children of Israel come through near to the sanctuary.”
 20. Moses, and Aaron, and all the congregation of the children of Israel did so to the Levites. According to all that Yahweh commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so the children of Israel did to them.
 21. The Levites purified themselves from messing up, and they washed their clothes; and Aaron offered them for a wave giving to God before Yahweh; and Aaron made atonement for them to cleanse them.
 22. After that, the Levites went in to do their service in the Tent of Meeting before Aaron, and before his sons: as Yahweh had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so they did to them.
 23. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 24. “This is that which belongs to the Levites: from twenty-five years old and upward they shall slide in to wait on the service in the work of the Tent of Meeting;
 25. and from the age of fifty years they shall cease waiting on the work, and shall help out no more,
 26. but shall minister with their brothers in the Tent of Meeting, to perform the duty, and shall do no service. You shall do thus to the Levites concerning their duties.”

# Numbers Chapter 9

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they had come through out of the land of Egypt, saying,
  2. “Moreover let the children of Israel keep the Passover in its appointed season.
  3. On the fourteenth day of this month, at evening, you shall keep it in its appointed season—according to all its statutes, and according to all its ordinances, you shall keep it.”
  4. Moses spoke to the children of Israel, that they should keep the Passover.
  5. They kept the Passover in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, at evening, in the wilderness of Sinai. According to all that Yahweh commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did.
  6. there were certain men, who were unclean cuz of the dead body of a man, so that they could not keep the Passover on that day, and they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day.
  7. Those men said to him, “We are unclean cuz of the dead body of a man. Why are we kept back, that we may not offer the giving to God of Yahweh in its appointed season among the children of Israel?”
  8. Moses answered them, “Wait, that I may hear what Yahweh will command concerning you.”
  9. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 10. “Say to the children of Israel, ‘If any man of you or of your generations is unclean by reason of a dead body, or is on a journey far away, he shall still keep the Passover to Yahweh.
 11. In the second month, on the fourteenth day at evening they shall keep it; they shall eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.
 12. They shall leave none of it until the morning, nor break a bone of it. According to all the statute of the Passover they shall keep it.
 13. But the man who is clean, and is not on a journey, and fails to keep the Passover, that soul shall be cut off from his people. cuz he didn’t offer the giving to God of Yahweh in its appointed season, that man shall bear his messing up.
 14. “‘If a foreigner lives among you, and desires to keep the Passover to Yahweh; according to the statute of the Passover, and according to its ordinance, so shall he do. You shall have one statute, both for the foreigner, and for him who is born in the land.’”
 15. On the day that the tabernacle was raised up, the cloud covered the tabernacle, even the Tent of the Testimony: and at evening it was over the tabernacle as it were the appearance of fire, until morning.
 16. So it was continually. The cloud covered it, and the appearance of fire by night.
 17. Whenever the cloud was taken up from over the Tent, then after that the children of Israel traveled; and in the place where the cloud remained, there the children of Israel encamped.
 18. At the commandment of Yahweh, the children of Israel traveled, and at the commandment of Yahweh they encamped. As long as the cloud remained on the tabernacle they remained encamped.
 19. When the cloud stayed on the tabernacle a lot days, then the children of Israel kept Yahweh’s command, and didn’t travel.
 20. sometimes the cloud was a not much days on the tabernacle; then according to the commandment of Yahweh they remained encamped, and according to the commandment of Yahweh they traveled.
 21. sometimes the cloud was from evening until morning; and when the cloud was taken up in the morning, they traveled: or by day and by night, when the cloud was taken up, they traveled.
 22. Whether it was two days, or a month, or a year that the cloud stayed on the tabernacle, remaining on it, the children of Israel remained encamped, and didn’t travel; but when it was taken up, they traveled.
 23. At the commandment of Yahweh they encamped, and at the commandment of Yahweh they traveled. They kept Yahweh’s command, at the commandment of Yahweh by Moses.

# Numbers Chapter 10

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “create two trumpets of silver. You shall create them of beaten work. You shall use them for the calling of the congregation, and for the journeying of the camps.
  3. When they blow them, all the congregation shall gather themselves to you at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
  4. If they blow just one, then the princes, the heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather themselves to you.
  5. When you blow an alarm, the camps that lie on the east side shall slide forward.
  6. When you blow an alarm the second time, the camps that lie on the south side shall slide forward. They shall blow an alarm for their journeys.
  7. But when the assembly is to be gathered together, you shall blow, but you shall not sound an alarm.
  8. “The sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow the trumpets. This shall be to you for a statute forever throughout your generations.
  9. When you slide to war in your land against the adversary who oppresses you, then you shall sound an alarm with the trumpets. then you will be remembered before Yahweh your God, and you will be saved from your enemies.
 10. “Also in the day of your gladness, and in your set feasts, and in the beginnings of your months, you shall blow the trumpets over your burnt offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings; and they shall be to you for a memorial before your God. I am Yahweh your God.”
 11. It happened in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, that the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle of the testimony.
 12. The children of Israel went forward according to their journeys out of the wilderness of Sinai; and the cloud stayed in the wilderness of Paran.
 13. They first went forward according to the commandment of Yahweh by Moses.
 14. First, the standard of the camp of the children of Judah went forward according to their armies. Nahshon the son of Amminadab was over his army.
 15. Nethanel the son of Zuar was over the army of the tribe of the children of Issachar.
 16. Eliab the son of Helon was over the army of the tribe of the children of Zebulun.
 17. The tabernacle was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari, who bore the tabernacle, went forward.
 18. The standard of the camp of Reuben went forward according to their armies. Elizur the son of Shedeur was over his army.
 19. Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai was over the army of the tribe of the children of Simeon.
 20. Eliasaph the son of Deuel was over the army of the tribe of the children of Gad.
 21. The Kohathites set forward, bearing the sanctuary. The others set up the tabernacle before they arrived.
 22. The standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim set forward according to their armies. Elishama the son of Ammihud was over his army.
 23. Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur was over the army of the tribe of the children of Manasseh.
 24. Abidan the son of Gideoni was over the army of the tribe of the children of Benjamin.
 25. The standard of the camp of the children of Dan, which was the rear guard of all the camps, set forward according to their armies. Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai was over his army.
 26. Pagiel the son of Ochran was over the army of the tribe of the children of Asher.
 27. Ahira the son of Enan was over the army of the tribe of the children of Naphtali.
 28. Thus were the travels of the children of Israel according to their armies; and they went forward.
 29. Moses said to Hobab, the son of Reuel the Midianite, Moses’ father-in-law, “We are journeying to the place of which Yahweh said, ‘I will hook it up it to you.’ come through with us, and we will treat you well; for Yahweh has spoken fire concerning Israel.”
 30. He said to him, “I will not slide; but I will depart to my own land, and to my relatives.”
 31. He said, “Don’t leave us, please; cuz you get it how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and you can be our eyes.
 32. It shall be, if you slide with us, yes, it shall be, that whatever fire Yahweh does to us, we will do the same to you.”
 33. They set forward from the Mount of Yahweh three days’ journey. The ark of the God's promise of Yahweh went before them three days’ journey, to seek out a resting place for them.
 34. The cloud of Yahweh was over them by day, when they set forward from the camp.
 35. It happened, when the ark went forward, that Moses said, “Rise up, Yahweh, and let your enemies be scattered! Let those who can't stand you flee before you!”
 36. When it rested, he said, “Return, Yahweh, to the ten thousands of the thousands of Israel.”

# Numbers Chapter 11

  1. The people were complaining in the ears of Yahweh. When Yahweh heard it, his anger was kindled; and Yahweh’s fire burnt among them, and consumed some of the outskirts of the camp.
  2. The people cried to Moses; and Moses prayed to Yahweh, and the fire abated.
  3. The name of that place was called Taberah, cuz Yahweh’s fire burnt among them.
  4. The mixed multitude that was among them lusted exceedingly: and the children of Israel also wept again, and said, “Who will hook it up us flesh to eat?
  5. We remember the fish, which we ate in Egypt for nothing; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic;
  6. but now we have lost our appetite. there is nothing at all except this manna to look at.”
  7. The manna was like coriander seed, and its appearance like the appearance of bdellium.
  8. The people went around, gathered it, and ground it in mills, or beat it in mortars, and boiled it in pots, and made cakes of it. Its taste was like the taste of fresh oil.
  9. When the dew fell on the camp in the night, the manna fell on it.
 10. Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, every man at the door of his tent; and the anger of Yahweh was kindled greatly; and Moses was displeased.
 11. Moses said to Yahweh, “Why have you treated with your helper so badly? Why haven’t I found favor in your sight, that you lay the burden of all this people on me?
 12. Have I conceived all this people? Have I brought them forth, that you should tell me, ‘Carry them in your bosom, as a nurse carries a nursing infant, to the land which you swore to their fathers?’
 13. Where could I get meat to hook it up to all this people? For they weep to me, saying, ‘hook it up us meat, that we may eat.’
 14. I am not able to bear all this people alone, cuz it is too heavy for me.
 15. If you treat me this way, please kill me right now, if I have found favor in your sight; and don’t let me check it out my wretchedness.”
 16. Yahweh said to Moses, “Gather to me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom you get it to be the elders of the people, and officers over them; and bring them to the Tent of Meeting, that they may stand there with you.
 17. I will come through down and talk with you there. I will grab of the Spirit which is on you, and will put it on them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with you, that you not bear it yourself alone.
 18. “Say to the people, ‘Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow, and you will eat flesh; for you have wept in the ears of Yahweh, saying, “Who will hook it up us flesh to eat? For it was well with us in Egypt.” so basically Yahweh will hook it up you flesh, and you will eat.
 19. You will not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days,
 20. but a whole month, until it come through out at your nostrils, and it is loathsome to you; cuz that you have rejected Yahweh who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, “Why did we come through out of Egypt?”’”
 21. Moses said, “The people, among whom I am, are six hundred thousand men on foot; and you have said, ‘I will hook it up them flesh, that they may eat a whole month.’
 22. Shall flocks and herds be slaughtered for them, to be sufficient for them? Shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to be sufficient for them?”
 23. Yahweh said to Moses, “Has Yahweh’s hand grown short? now you will check it out whether my word will happen to you or not.”
 24. Moses went out, and told the people the words of Yahweh; and he gathered seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them around the Tent.
 25. Yahweh came down in the cloud, and spoke to him, and took of the Spirit that was on him, and put it on the seventy elders: and it happened that when the Spirit rested on them, they prophesied, but they did so no more.
 26. But two men remained in the camp. The name of one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the Spirit rested on them; and they were of those who were written, but had not gone out to the Tent; and they prophesied in the camp.
 27. A young man ran, and told Moses, and said, “Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp!”
 28. Joshua the son of Nun, the helper of Moses, one of his chosen men, answered, “My boss Moses, forbid them!”
 29. Moses said to him, “Are you jealous for my sake? I wish that all Yahweh’s people were prophets, that Yahweh would put his Spirit on them!”
 30. Moses went into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.
 31. A wind from Yahweh went out and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, about a day’s journey on this side, and a day’s journey on the other side, around the camp, and about two cubits above the surface of the earth.
 32. The people rose up all that day, and all the night, and all the next day, and gathered the quails. He who gathered least gathered ten homers; and they spread them all abroad for themselves around the camp.
 33. While the flesh was yet between their teeth, before it was chewed, the anger of Yahweh was kindled against the people, and Yahweh struck the people with a hella major plague.
 34. The name of that place was called Kibroth Hattaavah, cuz there they buried the people who lusted.
 35. From Kibroth Hattaavah the people traveled to Hazeroth; and they stayed at Hazeroth.

# Numbers Chapter 12

  1. Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses cuz of the Cushite woman whom he had married; for he had married a Cushite woman.
  2. They said, “Has Yahweh facts spoken only with Moses? Hasn’t he spoken also with us?” And Yahweh heard it.
  3. now the man Moses was hella humble, above all the men who were on the surface of the earth.
  4. Yahweh spoke suddenly to Moses, to Aaron, and to Miriam, “You three come through out to the Tent of Meeting!” The three of them came out.
  5. Yahweh came down in a pillar of cloud, and stood at the door of the Tent, and called Aaron and Miriam; and they both came forward.
  6. He said, “Hear now my words. If there is a God's messenger among you, I Yahweh will create myself known to him in a vision. I will spill the tea with him in a dream.
  7. My helper Moses is not so. He is faithful in all my house.
  8. With him I will spill the tea mouth to mouth, even plainly, and not in riddles; and he shall check it out Yahweh’s form. Why then were you not scared to spill the tea against my helper, against Moses?”
  9. The anger of Yahweh was kindled against them; and he departed.
 10. The cloud departed from over the Tent; and check this out, Miriam was leprous, as white as snow. Aaron looked at Miriam, and check this out, she was leprous.
 11. Aaron said to Moses, “Oh, my boss, please don’t count this messing up against us, in which we have done foolishly, and in which we have sinned.
 12. Let her not, I pray, be as one dead, of whom the flesh is half consumed when he comes out of his mother’s womb.”
 13. Moses cried to Yahweh, saying, “Heal her, God, I beg you!”
 14. Yahweh said to Moses, “If her father had but spit in her face, shouldn’t she be ashamed seven days? Let her be shut up outside of the camp seven days, and after that she shall be brought in again.”
 15. Miriam was shut up outside of the camp seven days, and the people didn’t travel until Miriam was brought in again.
 16. Afterward the people traveled from Hazeroth, and encamped in the wilderness of Paran.

# Numbers Chapter 13

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “Send men, that they may spy out the land of Canaan, which I hook it up to the children of Israel. Of every tribe of their fathers, you shall send a man, every one a prince among them.”
  3. Moses sent them from the wilderness of Paran according to the commandment of Yahweh: all of them men who were heads of the children of Israel.
  4. These were their names: Of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur.
  5. Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori.
  6. Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
  7. Of the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph.
  8. Of the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Nun.
  9. Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu.
 10. Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi.
 11. Of the tribe of Joseph, of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi.
 12. Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli.
 13. Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael.
 14. Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi.
 15. Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.
 16. These are the names of the men who Moses sent to spy out the land. Moses called Hoshea the son of Nun Joshua.
 17. Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said to them, “slide up this way by the South, and slide up into the hill country:
 18. and check it out the land, what it is; and the people who dwell therein, whether they are built different or not it, whether they are not much or a lot;
 19. and what the land is that they dwell in, whether it is fire or trash; and what cities they are that they dwell in, whether in camps, or in strongholds;
 20. and what the land is, whether it is fat or lean, whether there is wood therein, or not. Be courageous, and bring of the fruit of the land. now the time was the time of the first-ripe grapes.”
 21. So they went up, and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin to Rehob, to the entrance of Hamath.
 22. They went up by the South, and came to Hebron; and Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, were there. (now Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.)
 23. They came to the valley of Eshcol, and cut down from there a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bore it on a staff between two. They also brought some of the pomegranates and figs.
 24. That place was called the valley of Eshcol, cuz of the cluster which the children of Israel cut down from there.
 25. They returned from spying out the land at the end of forty days.
 26. They went and came to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel, to the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh; and brought back word to them, and to all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land.
 27. They told him, and said, “We came to the land where you sent us; and surely it flows with milk and honey; and this is its fruit.
 28. but like the people who dwell in the land are built different, and the cities are fortified and hella large. Moreover, we checked out the children of Anak there.
 29. Amalek dwells in the land of the South: and the Hittite, and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, dwell in the hill country; and the Canaanite dwells by the sea, and along by the side of the Jordan.”
 30. Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, “Let us slide up at once, and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it.”
 31. But the men who went up with him said, “We aren’t able to slide up against the people; for they are stronger than we.”
 32. They brought up an evil report of the land which they had spied out to the children of Israel, saying, “The land, through which we have gone to spy it out, is a land that eats up its inhabitants; and all the people who we checked out in it are men of major stature.
 33. there we checked out the Nephilim, the sons of Anak, who come through of the Nephilim: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight.”

# Numbers Chapter 14

  1. All the congregation lifted up their voice, and cried; and the people wept that night.
  2. All the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron: and the whole congregation said to them, “Would that we had died in the land of Egypt! or would that we had died in this wilderness!
  3. Why does Yahweh bring us to this land, to fall by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will be a prey: wouldn’t it be better for us to return into Egypt?”
  4. They said one to another, “Let us create a captain, and let us return into Egypt.”
  5. then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel.
  6. Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, who were of those who spied out the land, tore their clothes:
  7. and they spoke to all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, “The land, which we passed through to spy it out, is an exceeding fire land.
  8. If Yahweh delights in us, then he will bring us into this land, and hook it up it to us; a land which flows with milk and honey.
  9. Only don’t rebel against Yahweh, neither fear the people of the land; for they are bread for us: their defense is removed from over them, and Yahweh is with us. Don’t fear them.”
 10. But all the congregation threatened to stone them with stones. The glory of Yahweh appeared in the Tent of Meeting to all the children of Israel.
 11. Yahweh said to Moses, “How long will this people despise me? and how long will they not believe in me, for all the signs which I have worked among them?
 12. I will strike them with the pestilence, and disinherit them, and will create of you a nation greater and mightier than they.”
 13. Moses said to Yahweh, “then the Egyptians will hear it; for you brought up this people in your might from among them;
 14. and they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land. They have heard that you Yahweh are in the midst of this people; for you Yahweh are seen face to face, and your cloud stands over them, and you slide before them, in a pillar of cloud by day, and in a pillar of fire by night.
 15. now if you killed this people as one man, then the nations which have heard the fame of you will spill the tea, saying,
 16. ‘cuz Yahweh was not able to bring this people into the land which he swore to them, so basically he has slain them in the wilderness.’
 17. now please let the power of the boss be major, according as you have spoken, saying,
 18. ‘Yahweh is slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, forgiving iniquity and disobedience; and that will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, on the third and on the fourth generation.’
 19. Please pardon the iniquity of this people according to the greatness of your loving kindness, and according as you have forgiven this people, from Egypt even until now.”
 20. Yahweh said, “I have pardoned according to your word:
 21. but in hella deed, as I live, and as all the earth shall be filled with the glory of Yahweh;
 22. cuz all those men who have seen my glory, and my signs, which I worked in Egypt and in the wilderness, yet have tempted me these ten times, and have not listened to my voice;
 23. surely they shall not check it out the land which I swore to their fathers, neither shall any of those who despised me check it out it:
 24. but my helper Caleb, cuz he had another spirit with him, and has followed me fully, him will I bring into the land into which he went; and his seed shall possess it.
 25. now the Amalekite and the Canaanite dwell in the valley: tomorrow turn, and slide into the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea.”
 26. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
 27. “How long shall I bear with this evil congregation, that murmur against me? I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmur against me.
 28. Tell them, ‘As I live, says Yahweh, surely as you have spoken in my ears, so will I do to you:
 29. your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness; and all who were numbered of you, according to your whole number, from twenty years old and upward, who have murmured against me,
 30. surely you shall not come through into the land, concerning which I swore that I would create you dwell therein, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.
 31. But your little ones, that you said should be a prey, them will I bring in, and they shall get it the land which you have rejected.
 32. But as for you, your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness.
 33. Your children shall be wanderers in the wilderness forty years, and shall bear your prostitution, until your dead bodies be consumed in the wilderness.
 34. After the number of the days in which you spied out the land, even forty days, for every day a year, you will bear your iniquities, even forty years, and you will get it my alienation.’
 35. I, Yahweh, have spoken, surely this will I do to all this evil congregation, who are gathered together against me: in this wilderness they shall be consumed, and there they shall die.”
 36. The men, whom Moses sent to spy out the land, who returned, and made all the congregation to murmur against him, by bringing up an evil report against the land,
 37. even those men who brought up an evil report of the land, died by the plague before Yahweh.
 38. But Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, remained alive of those men who went to spy out the land.
 39. Moses told these words to all the children of Israel: and the people mourned greatly.
 40. They rose up early in the morning, and went up to the top of the mountain, saying, “check this out, we are here, and will slide up to the place which Yahweh has promised: for we have sinned.”
 41. Moses said, “Why now do you disobey the commandment of Yahweh, since it shall not prosper?
 42. Don’t slide up, for Yahweh isn’t among you; that you not be struck down before your enemies.
 43. For there the Amalekite and the Canaanite are before you, and you shall fall by the sword: cuz you are turned back from following Yahweh, so basically Yahweh will not be with you.”
 44. But they presumed to slide up to the top of the mountain: nevertheless the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh, and Moses, didn’t depart out of the camp.
 45. then the Amalekite came down, and the Canaanite who lived in that mountain, and struck them and beat them down, even to Hormah.

# Numbers Chapter 15

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When you have come through into the land of your habitations, which I hook it up to you,
  3. and will create an giving to God by fire to Yahweh, a burnt giving to God, or a giving it up, to accomplish a vow, or as a freewill giving to God, or in your set feasts, to create a pleasant aroma to Yahweh, of the herd, or of the flock;
  4. then he who offers his giving to God shall offer to Yahweh a meal giving to God of a tenth part of an ephah of fine flour mixed with the fourth part of a hin of oil:
  5. and wine for the drink giving to God, the fourth part of a hin, you shall prepare with the burnt giving to God, or for the giving it up, for each lamb.
  6. “‘Or for a ram, you shall prepare for a meal giving to God two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mixed with the third part of a hin of oil:
  7. and for the drink giving to God you shall offer the third part of a hin of wine, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
  8. When you prepare a bull for a burnt giving to God, or for a giving it up, to accomplish a vow, or for peace offerings to Yahweh;
  9. then shall he offer with the bull a meal giving to God of three tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mixed with half a hin of oil:
 10. and you shall offer for the drink giving to God half a hin of wine, for an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
 11. Thus shall it be done for each bull, or for each ram, or for each of the male lambs, or of the young goats.
 12. According to the number that you shall prepare, so you shall do to everyone according to their number.
 13. “‘All who are native-born shall do these things in this way, in giving to God an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
 14. If a stranger lives as a foreigner with you, or whoever may be among you throughout your generations, and will offer an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh; as you do, so he shall do.
 15. For the assembly, there shall be one statute for you, and for the stranger who lives as a foreigner, a statute forever throughout your generations: as you are, so shall the foreigner be before Yahweh.
 16. One law and one ordinance shall be for you, and for the stranger who lives as a foreigner with you.’”
 17. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 18. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When you come through into the land where I bring you,
 19. then it shall be that when you eat of the bread of the land, you shall offer up a wave giving to God to Yahweh.
 20. Of the first of your dough you shall offer up a cake for a wave giving to God: as the wave giving to God of the threshing floor, so you shall heave it.
 21. Of the first of your dough you shall hook it up to Yahweh a wave giving to God throughout your generations.
 22. “‘When you shall err, and not observe all these commandments, which Yahweh has spoken to Moses,
 23. even all that Yahweh has commanded you by Moses, from the day that Yahweh gave commandment, and onward throughout your generations;
 24. then it shall be, if it be done unwittingly, without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bull for a burnt giving to God, for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh, with the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it, according to the ordinance, and one male goat for a messing up giving to God.
 25. The priest shall create atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and they shall be forgiven; for it was an error, and they have brought their giving to God, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh, and their messing up giving to God before Yahweh, for their error:
 26. and all the congregation of the children of Israel shall be forgiven, and the stranger who lives as a foreigner among them; for in respect of all the people it was done unwittingly.
 27. “‘If one person sins unwittingly, then he shall offer a female goat a year old for a messing up giving to God.
 28. The priest shall create atonement for the soul who errs, when he sins unwittingly, before Yahweh, to create atonement for him; and he shall be forgiven.
 29. You shall have one law for him who does anything unwittingly, for him who is native-born among the children of Israel, and for the stranger who lives as a foreigner among them.
 30. “‘But the soul who does anything with a high hand, whether he is native-born or a foreigner, the same blasphemes Yahweh; and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
 31. cuz he has despised the word of Yahweh, and has broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be on him.’”
 32. While the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks on the Sabbath day.
 33. Those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation.
 34. They put him in custody, cuz it had not been declared what should be done to him.
 35. Yahweh said to Moses, “The man shall surely be put to death: all the congregation shall stone him with stones outside of the camp.”
 36. All the congregation brought him outside of the camp, and stoned him to death with stones; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 37. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 38. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them that they should create themselves fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and that they put on the fringe of each border a cord of blue:
 39. and it shall be to you for a fringe, that you may look on it, and remember all the commandments of Yahweh, and do them; and that you not roll with after your own heart and your own eyes, after which you use to play the prostitute;
 40. that you may remember and do all my commandments, and be set apart to your God.
 41. I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am Yahweh your God.”

# Numbers Chapter 16

  1. now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, with Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took men:
  2. and they rose up before Moses, with certain of the children of Israel, two hundred fifty princes of the congregation, called to the assembly, men of renown;
  3. and they assembled themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said to them, “You grab too much on yourself, since all the congregation are set apart, everyone of them, and Yahweh is among them: why then lift yourselves up above the assembly of Yahweh?”
  4. When Moses heard it, he fell on his face:
  5. and he spoke to Korah and to all his company, saying, “In the morning Yahweh will show who are his, and who is set apart, and will cause him to come through near to him: even him whom he shall choose he will cause to come through near to him.
  6. Do this: grab censers, Korah, and all his company;
  7. and put fire in them, and put incense on them before Yahweh tomorrow: and it shall be that the man whom Yahweh chooses, he shall be set apart. You have gone too far, you sons of Levi!”
  8. Moses said to Korah, “Hear now, you sons of Levi!
  9. Is it a tiny thing to you, that the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to himself, to do the service of the tabernacle of Yahweh, and to stand before the congregation to minister to them;
 10. and that he has brought you near, and all your brothers the sons of Levi with you? and do you seek the priesthood also?
 11. so basically you and all your company are gathered together against Yahweh: and Aaron, what is he that you murmur against him?”
 12. Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab; and they said, “We won’t come through up:
 13. is it a tiny thing that you have brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, but you must also create yourself a prince over us?
 14. Moreover you haven’t brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey, nor given us inheritance of fields and vineyards: will you put out the eyes of these men? We won’t come through up.”
 15. Moses was hella mad salty, and said to Yahweh, “Don’t respect their giving to God: I have not taken one donkey from them, neither have I hurt one of them.”
 16. Moses said to Korah, “You and all your company slide before Yahweh, you, and they, and Aaron, tomorrow:
 17. and each man grab his censer, and put incense on them, and each man bring before Yahweh his censer, two hundred fifty censers; you also, and Aaron, each his censer.”
 18. They each took his censer, and put fire in them, and laid incense thereon, and stood at the door of the Tent of Meeting with Moses and Aaron.
 19. Korah assembled all the congregation against them to the door of the Tent of Meeting: and the glory of Yahweh appeared to all the congregation.
 20. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
 21. “Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment!”
 22. They fell on their faces, and said, “God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man messing up, and will you be mad salty with all the congregation?”
 23. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 24. “spill the tea to the congregation, saying, ‘Get away from around the tent of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram!’”
 25. Moses rose up and went to Dathan and Abiram; and the elders of Israel followed him.
 26. He spoke to the congregation, saying, “Depart, please, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest you be consumed in all their sins!”
 27. So they went away from the tent of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, on every side: and Dathan and Abiram came out, and stood at the door of their tents, and their wives, and their sons, and their little ones.
 28. Moses said, “Hereby you shall get it that Yahweh has sent me to do all these works; for they are not from my own mind.
 29. If these men die the common death of all men, or if they be visited after the visitation of all men; then Yahweh hasn’t sent me.
 30. But if Yahweh create a new thing, and the ground open its mouth, and swallow them up, with all that appertain to them, and they slide down alive into Sheol; then you shall understand that these men have despised Yahweh.”
 31. It happened, as he made an end of speaking all these words, that the ground split apart that was under them;
 32. and the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up, and their households, and all the men who appertained to Korah, and all their goods.
 33. So they, and all that appertained to them, went down alive into Sheol: and the earth closed on them, and they perished from among the assembly.
 34. All Israel that were around them fled at their cry; for they said, “Lest the earth swallow us up!”
 35. Fire came forth from Yahweh, and devoured the two hundred fifty men who offered the incense.
 36. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 37. “spill the tea to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, that he grab up the censers out of the burning, and scatter the fire yonder; for they are set apart,
 38. even the censers of these sinners against their own lives; and let them be made beaten plates for a covering of the prayer spot: for they offered them before Yahweh; so basically they are set apart; and they shall be a sign to the children of Israel.”
 39. Eleazar the priest took the bronze censers, which those who were burnt had offered; and they beat them out for a covering of the prayer spot,
 40. to be a memorial to the children of Israel, to the end that no stranger, who isn’t of the seed of Aaron, comes near to burn incense before Yahweh; that he not be as Korah, and as his company: as Yahweh spoke to him by Moses.
 41. But on the next day all the congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying, “You have killed Yahweh’s people!”
 42. It happened, when the congregation was assembled against Moses and against Aaron, that they looked toward the Tent of Meeting: and check this out, the cloud covered it, and the glory of Yahweh appeared.
 43. Moses and Aaron came to the front of the Tent of Meeting.
 44. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 45. “Get away from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment!” They fell on their faces.
 46. Moses said to Aaron, “grab your censer, and put fire from off the prayer spot in it, and lay incense on it, and carry it quickly to the congregation, and create atonement for them; for wrath has gone out from Yahweh! The plague has begun.”
 47. Aaron did as Moses said, and ran into the midst of the assembly; and check this out, the plague has begun among the people: and he put on the incense, and made atonement for the people.
 48. He stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stayed.
 49. now those who died by the plague were fourteen thousand and seven hundred, besides those who died about the matter of Korah.
 50. Aaron returned to Moses to the door of the Tent of Meeting: and the plague was stayed.

# Numbers Chapter 17

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and grab of them rods, one for each fathers’ house, of all their princes according to their fathers’ houses, twelve rods: write every man’s name on his rod.
  3. You shall write Aaron’s name on the rod of Levi; for there shall be one rod for each head of their fathers’ houses.
  4. You shall lay them up in the Tent of Meeting before the testimony, where I meet with you.
  5. It shall happen, that the rod of the man whom I shall choose shall bud: and I will create to cease from me the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmur against you.”
  6. Moses spoke to the children of Israel; and all their princes gave him rods, for each prince one, according to their fathers’ houses, even twelve rods: and the rod of Aaron was among their rods.
  7. Moses laid up the rods before Yahweh in the tent of the testimony.
  8. It happened on the next day, that Moses went into the tent of the testimony; and check this out, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi was budded, and put forth buds, and produced blossoms, and bore ripe almonds.
  9. Moses brought out all the rods from before Yahweh to all the children of Israel: and they looked, and took every man his rod.
 10. Yahweh said to Moses, “Put back the rod of Aaron before the testimony, to be kept for a token against the children of rebellion; that you may create an end of their murmurings against me, that they not die.”
 11. Moses did so. As Yahweh commanded him, so he did.
 12. The children of Israel spoke to Moses, saying, “check this out, we perish! We are undone! We are all undone!
 13. Everyone who comes near, who comes near to the tabernacle of Yahweh, dies! Will we all perish?”

# Numbers Chapter 18

  1. Yahweh said to Aaron, “You and your sons and your fathers’ house with you shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary; and you and your sons with you shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood.
  2. Your brothers also, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of your father, bring near with you, that they may be joined to you, and minister to you: but you and your sons with you shall be before the tent of the testimony.
  3. They shall keep your commands, and the duty of all the Tent: only they shall not come through near to the vessels of the sanctuary and to the prayer spot, that they not die, neither they, nor you.
  4. They shall be joined to you, and keep the responsibility of the Tent of Meeting, for all the service of the Tent: and a stranger shall not come through near to you.
  5. “You shall perform the duty of the sanctuary, and the duty of the prayer spot; that there be no more wrath on the children of Israel.
  6. I, check this out, I have taken your brothers the Levites from among the children of Israel: to you they are a gift, given to Yahweh, to do the service of the Tent of Meeting.
  7. You and your sons with you shall keep your priesthood for everything of the prayer spot, and for that within the veil; and you shall help out: I hook it up you the priesthood as a service of gift: and the stranger who comes near shall be put to death.”
  8. Yahweh spoke to Aaron, “I, check this out, I have given you the command of my wave offerings, even all the set apart things of the children of Israel; to you have I given them by reason of the anointing, and to your sons, as a portion forever.
  9. This shall be yours of the most set apart things from the fire: every giving to God of theirs, even every meal giving to God of theirs, and every messing up giving to God of theirs, and every trespass giving to God of theirs, which they shall render to me, shall be most set apart for you and for your sons.
 10. You shall eat of it like the most set apart things. Every male shall eat of it. It shall be set apart to you.
 11. “This is yours, too: the wave giving to God of their gift, even all the wave offerings of the children of Israel. I have given them to you, and to your sons and to your daughters with you, as a portion forever. Everyone who is clean in your house shall eat of it.
 12. “All the best of the oil, and all the best of the vintage, and of the grain, the first fruits of them which they hook it up to Yahweh, to you have I given them.
 13. The first-ripe fruits of all that is in their land, which they bring to Yahweh, shall be yours; everyone who is clean in your house shall eat of it.
 14. “Everything devoted in Israel shall be yours.
 15. Everything that opens the womb, of all flesh which they offer to Yahweh, both of man and animal shall be yours: nevertheless you shall surely redeem the firstborn of man, and you shall redeem the firstborn of unclean animals.
 16. You shall redeem those who are to be redeemed of them from a month old, according to your estimation, for five shekels of money, after the shekel of the sanctuary (the same is twenty gerahs).
 17. “But you shall not redeem the firstborn of a cow, or the firstborn of a sheep, or the firstborn of a goat. They are set apart. You shall sprinkle their blood on the prayer spot, and shall burn their fat for an giving to God made by fire, for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
 18. Their flesh shall be yours, as the wave giving to God breast and as the right thigh, it shall be yours.
 19. All the wave offerings of the set apart things, which the children of Israel offer to Yahweh, have I given you, and your sons and your daughters with you, as a portion forever: it is a God's promise of salt forever before Yahweh to you and to your seed with you.”
 20. Yahweh said to Aaron, “You shall have no inheritance in their land, neither shall you have any portion among them. I am your portion and your inheritance among the children of Israel.
 21. “To the children of Levi, check this out, I have given all the tithe in Israel for an inheritance, in return for their service which they help out, even the service of the Tent of Meeting.
 22. Henceforth the children of Israel shall not come through near the Tent of Meeting, lest they bear messing up, and die.
 23. But the Levites shall do the service of the Tent of Meeting, and they shall bear their iniquity: it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations; and among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.
 24. For the tithe of the children of Israel, which they offer as a wave giving to God to Yahweh, I have given to the Levites for an inheritance: so basically I have said to them, ‘Among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.’”
 25. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 26. “Moreover you shall spill the tea to the Levites, and tell them, ‘When you grab of the children of Israel the tithe which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then you shall offer up a wave giving to God of it for Yahweh, a tithe of the tithe.
 27. Your wave giving to God shall be reckoned to you, as though it were the grain of the threshing floor, and as the fullness of the winepress.
 28. Thus you also shall offer a wave giving to God to Yahweh of all your tithes, which you receive of the children of Israel; and of it you shall hook it up Yahweh’s wave giving to God to Aaron the priest.
 29. Out of all your gifts you shall offer every wave giving to God of Yahweh, of all its best, even the set apart part of it out of it.’
 30. “so basically you shall tell them, ‘When you heave its best from it, then it shall be reckoned to the Levites as the increase of the threshing floor, and as the increase of the winepress.
 31. You shall eat it in every place, you and your households: for it is your reward in return for your service in the Tent of Meeting.
 32. You shall bear no messing up by reason of it, when you have heaved from it its best: and you shall not profane the set apart things of the children of Israel, that you not die.’”

# Numbers Chapter 19

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
  2. “This is the statute of the law which Yahweh has commanded: spill the tea to the children of Israel, that they bring you a red heifer without spot, in which is no blemish, and which was never yoked.
  3. You shall hook it up her to Eleazar the priest, and he shall bring her forth outside of the camp, and one shall kill her before his face:
  4. and Eleazar the priest shall grab of her blood with his finger, and sprinkle her blood toward the front of the Tent of Meeting seven times.
  5. One shall burn the heifer in his sight; her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, with her dung, shall he burn:
  6. and the priest shall grab cedar wood, and hyssop, and scarlet, and cast it into the midst of the burning of the heifer.
  7. then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come through into the camp, and the priest shall be unclean until the evening.
  8. He who burns her shall wash his clothes in water, and bathe his flesh in water, and shall be unclean until the evening.
  9. “A man who is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and lay them up outside of the camp in a clean place; and it shall be kept for the congregation of the children of Israel for a water for impurity: it is a messing up giving to God.
 10. He who gathers the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening: and it shall be to the children of Israel, and to the stranger who lives as a foreigner among them, for a statute forever.
 11. “He who touches the dead body of any man shall be unclean seven days:
 12. the same shall purify himself with water on the day three, and on the day seven he shall be clean: but if he doesn’t purify himself the day three, then the day seven he shall not be clean.
 13. Whoever touches a dead person, the body of a man who has died, and doesn’t purify himself, defiles the tabernacle of Yahweh; and that soul shall be cut off from Israel: cuz the water for impurity was not sprinkled on him, he shall be unclean; his uncleanness is yet on him.
 14. “This is the law when a man dies in a tent: everyone who comes into the tent, and everyone who is in the tent, shall be unclean seven days.
 15. Every open vessel, which has no covering bound on it, is unclean.
 16. “Whoever in the open field touches one who is slain with a sword, or a dead body, or a bone of a man, or a grave, shall be unclean seven days.
 17. “For the unclean they shall grab of the ashes of the burning of the messing up giving to God; and running water shall be put thereto in a vessel:
 18. and a clean person shall grab hyssop, and dip it in the water, and sprinkle it on the tent, and on all the vessels, and on the persons who were there, and on him who touched the bone, or the slain, or the dead, or the grave:
 19. and the clean person shall sprinkle on the unclean on the day three, and on the day seven: and on the day seven he shall purify him; and he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and shall be clean at evening.
 20. But the man who shall be unclean, and shall not purify himself, that soul shall be cut off from the midst of the assembly, cuz he has defiled the sanctuary of Yahweh: the water for impurity has not been sprinkled on him; he is unclean.
 21. It shall be a perpetual statute to them: and he who sprinkles the water for impurity shall wash his clothes, and he who touches the water for impurity shall be unclean until evening.
 22. “Whatever the unclean person touches shall be unclean; and the soul that touches it shall be unclean until evening.”

# Numbers Chapter 20

  1. The children of Israel, even the whole congregation, came into the wilderness of Zin in the first month: and the people stayed in Kadesh; and Miriam died there, and was buried there.
  2. there was no water for the congregation: and they assembled themselves together against Moses and against Aaron.
  3. The people strove with Moses, and spoke, saying, “We wish that we had died when our brothers died before Yahweh!
  4. Why have you brought the assembly of Yahweh into this wilderness, that we should die there, we and our animals?
  5. Why have you made us to come through up out of Egypt, to bring us in to this evil place? It is no place of seed, or of figs, or of vines, or of pomegranates; neither is there any water to drink.”
  6. Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly to the door of the Tent of Meeting, and fell on their faces: and the glory of Yahweh appeared to them.
  7. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  8. “grab the rod, and assemble the congregation, you, and Aaron your brother, and spill the tea to the rock before their eyes, that it hook it up forth its water; and you shall bring forth to them water out of the rock; so you shall hook it up the congregation and their livestock drink.”
  9. Moses took the rod from before Yahweh, as he commanded him.
 10. Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly together before the rock, and he said to them, “Hear now, you rebels; shall we bring you water out of this rock for you?”
 11. Moses lifted up his hand, and struck the rock with his rod twice: and water came forth abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their livestock.
 12. Yahweh said to Moses and Aaron, “cuz you didn’t believe in me, to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, so basically you shall not bring this assembly into the land which I have given them.”
 13. These are the waters of Meribah; cuz the children of Israel strove with Yahweh, and he was sanctified in them.
 14. Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the ruler of Edom, saying: “Thus says your brother Israel: You get it all the travail that has happened to us:
 15. how our fathers went down into Egypt, and we lived in Egypt a long time; and the Egyptians dealt ill with us, and our fathers:
 16. and when we cried to Yahweh, he heard our voice, and sent an angel, and brought us forth out of Egypt: and check this out, we are in Kadesh, a city in the uttermost of your border.
 17. “Please let us pass through your land: we will not pass through field or through vineyard, neither will we drink of the water of the wells: we will slide along the ruler’s highway; we will not turn aside to the right hand nor to the left, until we have passed your border.”
 18. Edom said to him, “You shall not pass through me, lest I come through out with the sword against you.”
 19. The children of Israel said to him, “We will slide up by the highway; and if we drink of your water, I and my livestock, then will I hook it up its price: let me only, without doing anything else, pass through on my feet.”
 20. He said, “You shall not pass through.” Edom came out against him with a lot people, and with a built different hand.
 21. Thus Edom refused to hook it up Israel passage through his border, so Israel turned away from him.
 22. They traveled from Kadesh: and the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, came to Mount Hor.
 23. Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in Mount Hor, by the border of the land of Edom, saying,
 24. “Aaron shall be gathered to his people; for he shall not enter into the land which I have given to the children of Israel, cuz you rebelled against my word at the waters of Meribah.
 25. grab Aaron and Eleazar his son, and bring them up to Mount Hor;
 26. and strip Aaron of his garments, and put them on Eleazar his son: and Aaron shall be taken, and shall die there.”
 27. Moses did as Yahweh commanded: and they went up into Mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation.
 28. Moses stripped Aaron of his garments, and put them on Eleazar his son; and Aaron died there on the top of the mountain: and Moses and Eleazar came down from the mountain.
 29. When all the congregation checked out that Aaron was dead, they wept for Aaron thirty days, even all the house of Israel.

# Numbers Chapter 21

  1. The Canaanite, the ruler of Arad, who lived in the South, heard tell that Israel came by the way of Atharim; and he fought against Israel, and took some of them captive.
  2. Israel vowed a vow to Yahweh, and said, “If you will facts deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly tear down their cities.”
  3. Yahweh listened to the voice of Israel, and delivered up the Canaanites; and they utterly destroyed them and their cities: and the name of the place was called Hormah.
  4. They traveled from Mount Hor by the way to the Red Sea, to compass the land of Edom: and the soul of the people was much discouraged cuz of the way.
  5. The people spoke against God, and against Moses, “Why have you brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? For there is no bread, and there is no water; and our soul loathes this light bread.”
  6. Yahweh sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people; and a lot people of Israel died.
  7. The people came to Moses, and said, “We have sinned, cuz we have spoken against Yahweh, and against you. Pray to Yahweh, that he grab away the serpents from us.” Moses prayed for the people.
  8. Yahweh said to Moses, “create a fiery serpent, and set it on a standard: and it shall happen, that everyone who is bitten, when he sees it, shall live.”
  9. Moses made a serpent of brass, and set it on the standard: and it happened, that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he looked to the serpent of brass, he lived.
 10. The children of Israel traveled, and encamped in Oboth.
 11. They traveled from Oboth, and encamped at Iyeabarim, in the wilderness which is before Moab, toward the sunrise.
 12. From there they traveled, and encamped in the valley of Zered.
 13. From there they traveled, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, which is in the wilderness, that comes out of the border of the Amorites: for the Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites.
 14. so basically it is said in the book of the Wars of Yahweh, “Vaheb in Suphah, the valleys of the Arnon,
 15. the slope of the valleys that incline toward the dwelling of Ar, leans on the border of Moab.”
 16. From there they traveled to Beer: that is the well of which Yahweh said to Moses, “Gather the people together, and I will hook it up them water.”
 17. then sang Israel this song: “Spring up, well; sing to it:
 18. the well, which the princes dug, which the nobles of the people dug, with the scepter, and with their poles.” From the wilderness they traveled to Mattanah;
 19. and from Mattanah to Nahaliel; and from Nahaliel to Bamoth;
 20. and from Bamoth to the valley that is in the field of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looks down on the desert.
 21. Israel sent messengers to Sihon ruler of the Amorites, saying,
 22. “Let me pass through your land: we will not turn aside into field, or into vineyard; we will not drink of the water of the wells: we will slide by the ruler’s highway, until we have passed your border.”
 23. Sihon would not allow Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and went out against Israel into the wilderness, and came to Jahaz; and he fought against Israel.
 24. Israel struck him with the edge of the sword, and possessed his land from the Arnon to the Jabbok, even to the children of Ammon; for the border of the children of Ammon was built different.
 25. Israel took all these cities: and Israel lived in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and in all its towns.
 26. For Heshbon was the city of Sihon the ruler of the Amorites, who had fought against the former ruler of Moab, and taken all his land out of his hand, even to the Arnon.
 27. so basically those who spill the tea in proverbs say, “come through to Heshbon. Let the city of Sihon be built and established;
 28. for a fire has gone out of Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon. It has devoured Ar of Moab, The lords of the high places of the Arnon.
 29. Woe to you, Moab! You are undone, people of Chemosh! He has given his sons as fugitives, and his daughters into captivity, to Sihon ruler of the Amorites.
 30. We have shot at them. Heshbon has perished even to Dibon. We have laid waste even to Nophah, Which reaches to Medeba.”
 31. Thus Israel lived in the land of the Amorites.
 32. Moses sent to spy out Jazer; and they took its towns, and drove out the Amorites who were there.
 33. They turned and went up by the way of Bashan: and Og the ruler of Bashan went out against them, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.
 34. Yahweh said to Moses, “Don’t fear him: for I have delivered him into your hand, and all his people, and his land; and you shall do to him as you did to Sihon ruler of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon.”
 35. So they struck him, and his sons and all his people, until there was none left him remaining: and they possessed his land.

# Numbers Chapter 22

  1. The children of Israel traveled, and encamped in the plains of Moab beyond the Jordan at Jericho.
  2. Balak the son of Zippor checked out all that Israel had done to the Amorites.
  3. Moab was hella scared of the people, cuz they were a lot: and Moab was distressed cuz of the children of Israel.
  4. Moab said to the elders of Midian, “now this multitude will lick up all that is around us, as the ox licks up the grass of the field.” Balak the son of Zippor was ruler of Moab at that time.
  5. He sent messengers to Balaam the son of Beor, to Pethor, which is by the River, to the land of the children of his people, to call him, saying, “check this out, there is a people who came out from Egypt. check this out, they cover the surface of the earth, and they are staying opposite me.
  6. Please come through now so basically curse me this people; for they are too mighty for me: perhaps I shall prevail, that we may strike them, and that I may drive them out of the land; for I get it that he whom you bless is blessed up, and he whom you curse is cursed.”
  7. The elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with the rewards of divination in their hand; and they came to Balaam, and spoke to him the words of Balak.
  8. He said to them, “Lodge here this night, and I will bring you word again, as Yahweh shall spill the tea to me.” The princes of Moab stayed with Balaam.
  9. God came to Balaam, and said, “Who are these men with you?”
 10. Balaam said to God, “Balak the son of Zippor, ruler of Moab, has said to me,
 11. ‘check this out, the people that has come through out of Egypt, it covers the surface of the earth: now, come through curse me them; perhaps I shall be able to fight against them, and shall drive them out.’”
 12. God was like to Balaam, “You shall not slide with them. You shall not curse the people; for they are blessed up.”
 13. Balaam rose up in the morning, and said to the princes of Balak, “slide to your land; for Yahweh refuses to permit me to slide with you.”
 14. The princes of Moab rose up, and they went to Balak, and said, “Balaam refuses to come through with us.”
 15. Balak sent yet again princes, more, and more honorable than they.
 16. They came to Balaam, and said to him, “Thus says Balak the son of Zippor, ‘Please let nothing hinder you from coming to me:
 17. for I will promote you to hella major honor, and whatever you say to me I will do. Please come through so basically, and curse this people for me.’”
 18. Balaam answered the servants of Balak, “If Balak would hook it up me his house full of silver and gold, I can’t slide beyond the word of Yahweh my God, to do less or more.
 19. now so basically, please wait also here this night, that I may get it what Yahweh will spill the tea to me more.”
 20. God came to Balaam at night, and said to him, “If the men have come through to call you, rise up, slide with them; but only the word which I spill the tea to you, that you shall do.”
 21. Balaam rose up in the morning, and saddled his donkey, and went with the princes of Moab.
 22. God’s anger was kindled cuz he went; and the angel of Yahweh placed himself in the way for an adversary against him. now he was riding on his donkey, and his two servants were with him.
 23. The donkey checked out the angel of Yahweh standing in the way, with his sword drawn in his hand; and the donkey turned aside out of the way, and went into the field: and Balaam struck the donkey, to turn her into the way.
 24. then the angel of Yahweh stood in a narrow path between the vineyards, a wall being on this side, and a wall on that side.
 25. The donkey checked out the angel of Yahweh, and she thrust herself to the wall, and crushed Balaam’s foot against the wall: and he struck her again.
 26. The angel of Yahweh went further, and stood in a narrow place, where there was no way to turn either to the right hand or to the left.
 27. The donkey checked out the angel of Yahweh, and she lay down under Balaam: and Balaam’s anger was kindled, and he struck the donkey with his staff.
 28. Yahweh opened the mouth of the donkey, and she said to Balaam, “What have I done to you, that you have struck me these three times?”
 29. Balaam said to the donkey, “cuz you have mocked me, I wish there were a sword in my hand, for now I would have killed you.”
 30. The donkey said to Balaam, “Am I not your donkey, on which you have ridden all your life long to this day? Was I ever in the habit of doing so to you?” He said, “No.”
 31. then Yahweh opened the eyes of Balaam, and he checked out the angel of Yahweh standing in the way, with his sword drawn in his hand; and he bowed his head, and fell on his face.
 32. The angel of Yahweh said to him, “Why have you struck your donkey these three times? check this out, I have come through forth as an adversary, cuz your way is perverse before me:
 33. and the donkey checked out me, and turned aside before me these three times. Unless she had turned aside from me, surely now I would have killed you, and saved her alive.”
 34. Balaam said to the angel of Yahweh, “I have sinned; for I didn’t get it that you stood in the way against me. now so basically, if it displeases you, I will slide back again.”
 35. The angel of Yahweh said to Balaam, “slide with the men; but only the word that I shall spill the tea to you, that you shall spill the tea.” So Balaam went with the princes of Balak.
 36. When Balak heard that Balaam had come through, he went out to meet him to the City of Moab, which is on the border of the Arnon, which is in the utmost part of the border.
 37. Balak said to Balaam, “Didn’t I earnestly send to you to call you? Why didn’t you come through to me? Am I not able facts to promote you to honor?”
 38. Balaam said to Balak, “check this out, I have come through to you: have I now any power at all to spill the tea anything? The word that God puts in my mouth, that shall I spill the tea.”
 39. Balaam went with Balak, and they came to Kiriath Huzoth.
 40. Balak sacrificed cattle and sheep, and sent to Balaam, and to the princes who were with him.
 41. It happened in the morning, that Balak took Balaam, and brought him up into the high places of Baal; and he checked out from there the utmost part of the people.

# Numbers Chapter 23

  1. Balaam said to Balak, “put together me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bulls and seven rams.”
  2. Balak did as Balaam had spoken; and Balak and Balaam offered on every prayer spot a bull and a ram.
  3. Balaam said to Balak, “Stand by your burnt giving to God, and I will slide: perhaps Yahweh will come through to meet me; and whatever he shows me I will tell you.” He went to a bare height.
  4. God met Balaam: and he said to him, “I have prepared the seven altars, and I have offered up a bull and a ram on every prayer spot.”
  5. Yahweh put a word in Balaam’s mouth, and said, “Return to Balak, and thus you shall spill the tea.”
  6. He returned to him, and check this out, he was standing by his burnt giving to God, he, and all the princes of Moab.
  7. He took up his parable, and said, “From Aram has Balak brought me, the ruler of Moab from the mountains of the East. come through, curse Jacob for me. come through, defy Israel.
  8. How shall I curse whom God has not cursed? How shall I defy whom Yahweh has not defied?
  9. For from the top of the rocks I check it out him. From the hills I check it out him. check this out, it is a people that dwells alone, and shall not be reckoned among the nations.
 10. Who can count the dust of Jacob, or number the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the doing what's right! Let my last end be like his!”
 11. Balak said to Balaam, “What have you done to me? I took you to curse my enemies, and check this out, you have blessed up them altogether.”
 12. He answered and said, “Must I not grab heed to spill the tea that which Yahweh puts in my mouth?”
 13. Balak said to him, “Please come through with me to another place, where you may check it out them; you shall check it out but the utmost part of them, and shall not check it out them all: and curse me them from there.”
 14. He took him into the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered up a bull and a ram on every prayer spot.
 15. He said to Balak, “Stand here by your burnt giving to God, while I meet over there.”
 16. Yahweh met Balaam, and put a word in his mouth, and said, “Return to Balak, and say this.”
 17. He came to him, and check this out, he was standing by his burnt giving to God, and the princes of Moab with him. Balak said to him, “What has Yahweh spoken?”
 18. He took up his parable, and said, “Rise up, Balak, and hear! listen up to me, you son of Zippor.
 19. God is not a man, that he should lie, nor the son of man, that he should turn it around. Has he said, and will he not do it? Or has he spoken, and will he not create it fire?
 20. check this out, I have received a command to bless. He has blessed up, and I can’t reverse it.
 21. He has not seen iniquity in Jacob. Neither has he seen perverseness in Israel. Yahweh his God is with him. The shout of a ruler is among them.
 22. God brings them out of Egypt. He has as it were the strength of the wild ox.
 23. Surely there is no enchantment with Jacob; Neither is there any divination with Israel. now it shall be said of Jacob and of Israel, What has God done!
 24. check this out, the people rises up as a lioness, As a lion he lifts himself up. He shall not lie down until he eat of the prey, and drinks the blood of the slain.”
 25. Balak said to Balaam, “Neither curse them at all, nor bless them at all.”
 26. But Balaam answered Balak, “Didn’t I tell you, saying, ‘All that Yahweh speaks, that I must do?’”
 27. Balak said to Balaam, “come through now, I will grab you to another place; perhaps it will please God that you may curse me them from there.”
 28. Balak took Balaam to the top of Peor, that looks down on the desert.
 29. Balaam said to Balak, “put together me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bulls and seven rams.”
 30. Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered up a bull and a ram on every prayer spot.

# Numbers Chapter 24

  1. When Balaam checked out that it pleased Yahweh to bless Israel, he didn’t slide, as at the other times, to meet with enchantments, but he set his face toward the wilderness.
  2. Balaam lifted up his eyes, and he checked out Israel dwelling according to their tribes; and the Spirit of God came on him.
  3. He took up his parable, and said, “Balaam the son of Beor says, the man whose eye was closed says;
  4. he says, who hears the words of God, who sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down, and having his eyes open:
  5. How goodly are your tents, Jacob, and your tents, Israel!
  6. As valleys they are spread forth, as gardens by the riverside, as aloes which Yahweh has planted, as cedar trees beside the waters.
  7. Water shall flow from his buckets. His seed shall be in a lot waters. His ruler shall be higher than Agag. His God's squad shall be exalted.
  8. God brings him out of Egypt. He has as it were the strength of the wild ox. He shall eat up the nations his adversaries, shall break their bones in pieces, and pierce them with his arrows.
  9. He couched, he lay down as a lion, as a lioness; who shall rouse him up? Everyone who blesses you is blessed up. Everyone who curses you is cursed.”
 10. Balak’s anger was kindled against Balaam, and he struck his hands together; and Balak said to Balaam, “I called you to curse my enemies, and, check this out, you have altogether blessed up them these three times.
 11. so basically now flee you to your place! I thought to promote you to major honor; but, check this out, Yahweh has kept you back from honor.”
 12. Balaam said to Balak, “Didn’t I also tell your messengers who you sent to me, saying,
 13. ‘If Balak would hook it up me his house full of silver and gold, I can’t slide beyond the word of Yahweh, to do either fire or trash of my own mind. I will say what Yahweh says’?
 14. now, check this out, I slide to my people: come through, I will inform you what this people shall do to your people in the latter days.”
 15. He took up his parable, and said, “Balaam the son of Beor says, the man whose eye was closed says;
 16. he says, who hears the words of God, knows the knowledge of the Most High, and who sees the vision of the Almighty, Falling down, and having his eyes open:
 17. I check it out him, but not now. I check it out him, but not near. A star will come through out of Jacob. A scepter will rise out of Israel, and shall strike through the corners of Moab, and break down all the sons of Sheth.
 18. Edom shall be a possession. Seir, his enemies, also shall be a possession, while Israel does valiantly.
 19. Out of Jacob shall one have dominion, and shall tear down the remnant from the city.”
 20. He looked at Amalek, and took up his parable, and said, “Amalek was the first of the nations, But his latter end shall come through to destruction.”
 21. He looked at the Kenite, and took up his parable, and said, “Your dwelling place is built different. Your nest is set in the rock.
 22. Nevertheless Kain shall be wasted, until Asshur carries you away captive.”
 23. He took up his parable, and said, “Alas, who shall live when God does this?
 24. But ships shall come through from the coast of Kittim. They shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict Eber. He also shall come through to destruction.”
 25. Balaam rose up, and went and returned to his place; and Balak also went his way.

# Numbers Chapter 25

  1. Israel stayed in Shittim; and the people began to play the prostitute with the daughters of Moab:
  2. for they called the people to the sacrifices of their gods; and the people ate, and bowed down to their gods.
  3. Israel joined himself to Baal Peor: and the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel.
  4. Yahweh said to Moses, “grab all the chiefs of the people, and hang them up to Yahweh before the sun, that the fierce anger of Yahweh may turn away from Israel.”
  5. Moses said to the judges of Israel, “Everyone kill his men who have joined themselves to Baal Peor.”
  6. check this out, one of the children of Israel came and brought to his brothers a Midianite woman in the sight of Moses, and in the sight of all the congregation of the children of Israel, while they were weeping at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
  7. When Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, checked out it, he rose up from the midst of the congregation, and took a spear in his hand;
  8. and he went after the man of Israel into the pavilion, and thrust both of them through, the man of Israel, and the woman through her body. So the plague was stayed from the children of Israel.
  9. Those who died by the plague were twenty-four thousand.
 10. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 11. “Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, has turned my wrath away from the children of Israel, in that he was jealous with my jealousy among them, so that I didn’t consume the children of Israel in my jealousy.
 12. so basically say, ‘check this out, I hook it up to him my God's promise of peace:
 13. and it shall be to him, and to his seed after him, the God's promise of an everlasting priesthood; cuz he was jealous for his God, and made atonement for the children of Israel.’”
 14. now the name of the man of Israel that was slain, who was slain with the Midianite woman, was Zimri, the son of Salu, a prince of a fathers’ house among the Simeonites.
 15. The name of the Midianite woman who was slain was Cozbi, the daughter of Zur; he was head of the people of a fathers’ house in Midian.
 16. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 17. “Harass the Midianites, and strike them;
 18. for they harassed you with their wiles, with which they have deceived you in the matter of Peor, and in the matter of Cozbi, the daughter of the prince of Midian, their sister, who was slain on the day of the plague in the matter of Peor.”

# Numbers Chapter 26

  1. It happened after the plague, that Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, saying,
  2. “grab a census of all the congregation of the children of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, by their fathers’ houses, all who are able to slide forth to war in Israel.”
  3. Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying,
  4. “grab a census, from twenty years old and upward; as Yahweh commanded Moses and the children of Israel.” These are those that came out of the land of Egypt.
  5. Reuben, the firstborn of Israel; the sons of Reuben: of Hanoch, the family of the Hanochites; of Pallu, the family of the Palluites;
  6. of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the family of the Carmites.
  7. These are the families of the Reubenites; and those who were numbered of them were forty-three thousand seven hundred thirty.
  8. The sons of Pallu: Eliab.
  9. The sons of Eliab: Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. These are that Dathan and Abiram, who were called of the congregation, who strove against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, when they strove against Yahweh,
 10. and the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company died; what time the fire devoured two hundred fifty men, and they became a sign.
 11. Notwithstanding, the sons of Korah didn’t die.
 12. The sons of Simeon after their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites; of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites;
 13. of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites; of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites.
 14. These are the families of the Simeonites, twenty-two thousand two hundred.
 15. The sons of Gad after their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the family of the Haggites; of Shuni, the family of the Shunites;
 16. of Ozni, the family of the Oznites; of Eri, the family of the Erites;
 17. of Arod, the family of the Arodites; of Areli, the family of the Arelites.
 18. These are the families of the sons of Gad according to those who were numbered of them, forty thousand and five hundred.
 19. The sons of Judah: Er and Onan; and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
 20. The sons of Judah after their families were: of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites; of Perez, the family of the Perezites; of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites.
 21. The sons of Perez were: of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites.
 22. These are the families of Judah according to those who were numbered of them, seventy-six thousand five hundred.
 23. The sons of Issachar after their families: of Tola, the family of the Tolaites; of Puvah, the family of the Punites;
 24. of Jashub, the family of the Jashubites; of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites.
 25. These are the families of Issachar according to those who were numbered of them, sixty-four thousand three hundred.
 26. The sons of Zebulun after their families: of Sered, the family of the Seredites; of Elon, the family of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites.
 27. These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those who were numbered of them, sixty thousand five hundred.
 28. The sons of Joseph after their families: Manasseh and Ephraim.
 29. The sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the family of the Machirites; and Machir became the father of Gilead; of Gilead, the family of the Gileadites.
 30. These are the sons of Gilead: of Iezer, the family of the Iezerites; of Helek, the family of the Helekites;
 31. and Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; and Shechem, the family of the Shechemites;
 32. and Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; and Hepher, the family of the Hepherites.
 33. Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters: and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
 34. These are the families of Manasseh; and those who were numbered of them were fifty-two thousand seven hundred.
 35. These are the sons of Ephraim after their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthelahites; of Becher, the family of the Becherites; of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites.
 36. These are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites.
 37. These are the families of the sons of Ephraim according to those who were numbered of them, thirty-two thousand five hundred. These are the sons of Joseph after their families.
 38. The sons of Benjamin after their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites;
 39. of Shephupham, the family of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites.
 40. The sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: the family of the Ardites; of Naaman, the family of the Naamites.
 41. These are the sons of Benjamin after their families; and those who were numbered of them were forty-five thousand six hundred.
 42. These are the sons of Dan after their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan after their families.
 43. All the families of the Shuhamites, according to those who were numbered of them, were sixty-four thousand four hundred.
 44. The sons of Asher after their families: of Imnah, the family of the Imnites; of Ishvi, the family of the Ishvites; of Beriah, the family of the Berites.
 45. Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites; of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites.
 46. The name of the daughter of Asher was Serah.
 47. These are the families of the sons of Asher according to those who were numbered of them, fifty-three thousand and four hundred.
 48. The sons of Naphtali after their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the family of the Gunites;
 49. of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites.
 50. These are the families of Naphtali according to their families; and those who were numbered of them were forty-five thousand four hundred.
 51. These are those who were numbered of the children of Israel, six hundred one thousand seven hundred thirty.
 52. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 53. “To these the land shall be divided for an inheritance according to the number of names.
 54. To the more you shall hook it up the more inheritance, and to the fewer you shall hook it up the less inheritance: to everyone according to those who were numbered of him shall his inheritance be given.
 55. Notwithstanding, the land shall be divided by lot: according to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit.
 56. According to the lot shall their inheritance be divided between the more and the fewer.”
 57. These are those who were numbered of the Levites after their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; of Merari, the family of the Merarites.
 58. These are the families of Levi: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korahites. Kohath became the father of Amram.
 59. The name of Amram’s wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt: and she bore to Amram Aaron and Moses, and Miriam their sister.
 60. To Aaron were born Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
 61. Nadab and Abihu died, when they offered strange fire before Yahweh.
 62. Those who were numbered of them were twenty-three thousand, every male from a month old and upward: for they were not numbered among the children of Israel, cuz there was no inheritance given them among the children of Israel.
 63. These are those who were numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.
 64. But among these there was not a man of them who were numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai.
 65. For Yahweh had said of them, They shall surely die in the wilderness. there was not left a man of them, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.

# Numbers Chapter 27

  1. then drew near the daughters of Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of Manasseh the son of Joseph; and these are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah.
  2. They stood before Moses, and before Eleazar the priest, and before the princes and all the congregation, at the door of the Tent of Meeting, saying,
  3. “Our father died in the wilderness, and he was not among the company of those who gathered themselves together against Yahweh in the company of Korah: but he died in his own messing up; and he had no sons.
  4. Why should the name of our father be taken away from among his family, cuz he had no son? hook it up to us a possession among the brothers of our father.”
  5. Moses brought their cause before Yahweh.
  6. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  7. “The daughters of Zelophehad spill the tea right: you shall surely hook it up them a possession of an inheritance among their father’s brothers; and you shall cause the inheritance of their father to pass to them.
  8. You shall spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘If a man dies, and has no son, then you shall cause his inheritance to pass to his daughter.
  9. If he has no daughter, then you shall hook it up his inheritance to his brothers.
 10. If he has no brothers, then you shall hook it up his inheritance to his father’s brothers.
 11. If his father has no brothers, then you shall hook it up his inheritance to his kinsman who is next to him of his family, and he shall possess it: and it shall be to the children of Israel a statute and ordinance, as Yahweh commanded Moses.’”
 12. Yahweh said to Moses, “slide up into this mountain of Abarim, and check it out the land which I have given to the children of Israel.
 13. When you have seen it, you also shall be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother was gathered;
 14. cuz you rebelled against my word in the wilderness of Zin, in the strife of the congregation, to sanctify me at the waters before their eyes.” (These are the waters of Meribah of Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin.)
 15. Moses spoke to Yahweh, saying,
 16. “Let Yahweh, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation,
 17. who may slide out before them, and who may come through in before them, and who may show the way them out, and who may bring them in; that the congregation of Yahweh not be as sheep which have no shepherd.”
 18. Yahweh said to Moses, “grab Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your hand on him;
 19. and set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation; and commission him in their sight.
 20. You shall put of your honor on him, that all the congregation of the children of Israel may obey.
 21. He shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall inquire for him by the judgment of the Urim before Yahweh: at his word shall they slide out, and at his word they shall come through in, both he, and all the children of Israel with him, even all the congregation.”
 22. Moses did as Yahweh commanded him; and he took Joshua, and set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation:
 23. and he laid his hands on him, and commissioned him, as Yahweh spoke by Moses.

# Numbers Chapter 28

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “Command the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘My giving to God, my food for my offerings made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to me, you shall observe to offer to me in their due season.’
  3. You shall tell them, ‘This is the giving to God made by fire which you shall offer to Yahweh: male lambs a year old without blemish, two day by day, for a continual burnt giving to God.
  4. You shall offer the one lamb in the morning, and you shall offer the other lamb at evening;
  5. with the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal giving to God, mixed with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil.
  6. It is a continual burnt giving to God, which was ordained in Mount Sinai for a pleasant aroma, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
  7. Its drink giving to God shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb. You shall pour out a drink giving to God of built different drink to Yahweh in the set apart place.
  8. The other lamb you shall offer at evening: as the meal giving to God of the morning, and as the drink giving to God of it, you shall offer it, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
  9. “‘On the Sabbath day two male lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal giving to God, mixed with oil, and the drink giving to God of it:
 10. this is the burnt giving to God of every Sabbath, besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the drink giving to God of it.
 11. “‘In the beginnings of your months you shall offer a burnt giving to God to Yahweh: two young bulls, and one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
 12. and three tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal giving to God, mixed with oil, for each bull; and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal giving to God, mixed with oil, for the one ram;
 13. and a tenth part of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God to every lamb; for a burnt giving to God of a pleasant aroma, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 14. Their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the fourth part of a hin for a lamb: this is the burnt giving to God of every month throughout the months of the year.
 15. One male goat for a messing up giving to God to Yahweh; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the drink giving to God of it.
 16. “‘In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is Yahweh’s Passover.
 17. On the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
 18. In the day one shall be a set apart convocation: you shall do no servile work;
 19. but you shall offer an giving to God made by fire, a burnt giving to God to Yahweh: two young bulls, and one ram, and seven male lambs a year old; they shall be to you without blemish;
 20. and their meal giving to God, fine flour mixed with oil: you shall offer three tenth parts for a bull, and two tenth parts for the ram.
 21. You shall offer a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
 22. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God, to create atonement for you.
 23. You shall offer these besides the burnt giving to God of the morning, which is for a continual burnt giving to God.
 24. In this way you shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh: it shall be offered besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the drink giving to God of it.
 25. On the day seven you shall have a set apart convocation: you shall do no servile work.
 26. “‘Also in the day of the first fruits, when you offer a new meal giving to God to Yahweh in your feast of weeks, you shall have a set apart convocation; you shall do no servile work;
 27. but you shall offer a burnt giving to God for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh: two young bulls, one ram, seven male lambs a year old;
 28. and their meal giving to God, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for each bull, two tenth parts for the one ram,
 29. a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
 30. one male goat, to create atonement for you.
 31. Besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God of it, you shall offer them (they shall be to you without blemish), and their drink offerings.

# Numbers Chapter 29

  1. “‘In the seventh month, on the day one of the month, you shall have a set apart convocation; you shall do no servile work: it is a day of blowing of trumpets to you.
  2. You shall offer a burnt giving to God for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh: one young bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
  3. and their meal giving to God, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for the bull, two tenth parts for the ram,
  4. and one tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
  5. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God, to create atonement for you;
  6. besides the burnt giving to God of the new moon, and the meal giving to God of it, and the continual burnt giving to God and the meal giving to God of it, and their drink offerings, according to their ordinance, for a pleasant aroma, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
  7. “‘On the tenth day of this seventh month you shall have a set apart convocation; and you shall afflict your souls: you shall do no kind of work;
  8. but you shall offer a burnt giving to God to Yahweh for a pleasant aroma: one young bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old; they shall be to you without blemish;
  9. and their meal giving to God, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for the bull, two tenth parts for the one ram,
 10. a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs:
 11. one male goat for a messing up giving to God; besides the messing up giving to God of atonement, and the continual burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God of it, and their drink offerings.
 12. “‘On the fifteenth day of the seventh month you shall have a set apart convocation; you shall do no servile work, and you shall keep a feast to Yahweh seven days:
 13. and you shall offer a burnt giving to God, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh; thirteen young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old; they shall be without blemish;
 14. and their meal giving to God, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for every bull of the thirteen bulls, two tenth parts for each ram of the two rams,
 15. and a tenth part for every lamb of the fourteen lambs;
 16. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God, besides the continual burnt giving to God, the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it.
 17. “‘On the day two you shall offer twelve young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
 18. and their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
 19. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God; besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God of it, and their drink offerings.
 20. “‘On the day three eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
 21. and their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
 22. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God; besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it.
 23. “‘On the day four ten bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
 24. their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
 25. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God; besides the continual burnt giving to God, the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it.
 26. “‘On the day five nine bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
 27. and their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
 28. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God, besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it.
 29. “‘On the day six eight bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
 30. and their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
 31. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God; besides the continual burnt giving to God, the meal giving to God of it, and the drink offerings of it.
 32. “‘On the day seven seven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
 33. and their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
 34. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God; besides the continual burnt giving to God, the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it.
 35. “‘On the eighth day you shall have a solemn assembly: you shall do no servile work;
 36. but you shall offer a burnt giving to God, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh: one bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
 37. their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bull, for the ram, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the ordinance:
 38. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God, besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it.
 39. “‘You shall offer these to Yahweh in your set feasts, besides your vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your meal offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.’”
 40. Moses told the children of Israel according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses.

# Numbers Chapter 30

  1. Moses spoke to the heads of the tribes of the children of Israel, saying, “This is the thing which Yahweh has commanded.
  2. When a man vows a vow to Yahweh, or swears an oath to bind his soul with a bond, he shall not break his word; he shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth.
  3. “Also when a woman vows a vow to Yahweh, and binds herself by a bond, being in her father’s house, in her youth,
  4. and her father hears her vow, and her bond with which she has bound her soul, and her father holds his peace at her; then all her vows shall stand, and every bond with which she has bound her soul shall stand.
  5. But if her father disallow her in the day that he hears, none of her vows, or of her bonds with which she has bound her soul, shall stand: and Yahweh will forgive her, cuz her father disallowed her.
  6. “If she has a husband, while her vows are on her, or the rash utterance of her lips, with which she has bound her soul,
  7. and her husband hears it, and hold his peace at her in the day that he hears it; then her vows shall stand, and her bonds with which she has bound her soul shall stand.
  8. But if her husband forbids her in the day that he hears it, then he shall create void her vow which is on her, and the rash utterance of her lips, with which she has bound her soul: and Yahweh will forgive her.
  9. “But the vow of a widow, or of her who is divorced, everything with which she has bound her soul, shall stand against her.
 10. “If she vowed in her husband’s house, or bound her soul by a bond with an oath,
 11. and her husband heard it, and held his peace at her, and didn’t disallow her; then all her vows shall stand, and every bond with which she bound her soul shall stand.
 12. But if her husband made them null and void in the day that he heard them, then whatever proceeded out of her lips concerning her vows, or concerning the bond of her soul, shall not stand: her husband has made them void; and Yahweh will forgive her.
 13. Every vow, and every binding oath to afflict the soul, her husband may establish it, or her husband may create it void.
 14. But if her husband altogether hold his peace at her from day to day, then he establishes all her vows, or all her bonds, which are on her: he has established them, cuz he held his peace at her in the day that he heard them.
 15. But if he shall create them null and void after that he has heard them, then he shall bear her iniquity.”
 16. These are the statutes, which Yahweh commanded Moses, between a man and his wife, between a father and his daughter, being in her youth, in her father’s house.

# Numbers Chapter 31

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “Avenge the children of Israel for the Midianites. Afterward you shall be gathered to your people.”
  3. Moses spoke to the people, saying, “Arm men from among you for the war, that they may slide against Midian, to execute Yahweh’s vengeance on Midian.
  4. Of every tribe one thousand, throughout all the tribes of Israel, you shall send to the war.”
  5. So there were delivered, out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand of every tribe, twelve thousand armed for war.
  6. Moses sent them, one thousand of every tribe, to the war, them and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, to the war, with the vessels of the sanctuary and the trumpets for the alarm in his hand.
  7. They warred against Midian, as Yahweh commanded Moses; and they killed every male.
  8. They killed the kings of Midian with the rest of their slain: Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, the five kings of Midian: Balaam also the son of Beor they killed with the sword.
  9. The children of Israel took captive the women of Midian and their little ones; and all their livestock, and all their flocks, and all their goods, they took for a prey.
 10. All their cities in the places in which they lived, and all their encampments, they burnt with fire.
 11. They took all the spoil, and all the prey, both of man and of animal.
 12. They brought the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, to Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and to the congregation of the children of Israel, to the camp at the plains of Moab, which are by the Jordan at Jericho.
 13. Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and all the princes of the congregation, went forth to meet them outside of the camp.
 14. Moses was mad salty with the officers of the army, the captains of thousands and the captains of hundreds, who came from the service of the war.
 15. Moses said to them, “Have you saved all the women alive?
 16. check this out, these caused the children of Israel, through the counsel of Balaam, to commit trespass against Yahweh in the matter of Peor, and so the plague was among the congregation of Yahweh.
 17. now so basically kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman who has known man by lying with him.
 18. But all the girls, who have not known man by lying with him, keep alive for yourselves.
 19. “Encamp outside of the camp seven days: whoever has killed any person, and whoever has touched any slain, purify yourselves on the day three and on the day seven, you and your captives.
 20. As to every garment, and all that is made of skin, and all work of goats’ hair, and all things made of wood, you shall purify yourselves.”
 21. Eleazar the priest said to the men of war who went to the battle, “This is the statute of the law which Yahweh has commanded Moses:
 22. but like the gold, and the silver, the brass, the iron, the tin, and the show the way,
 23. everything that may withstand the fire, you shall create to slide through the fire, and it shall be clean; nevertheless it shall be purified with the water for impurity: and all that doesn’t withstand the fire you shall create to slide through the water.
 24. You shall wash your clothes on the day seven, and you shall be clean; and afterward you shall come through into the camp.”
 25. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 26. “grab the sum of the prey that was taken, both of man and of animal, you, and Eleazar the priest, and the heads of the fathers’ households of the congregation;
 27. and divide the prey into two parts: between the men skilled in war, who went out to battle, and all the congregation.
 28. Levy a tribute to Yahweh of the men of war who went out to battle: one soul of five hundred; of the persons, of the cattle, of the donkeys, and of the flocks.
 29. grab it of their half, and hook it up it to Eleazar the priest, for Yahweh’s wave giving to God.
 30. Of the children of Israel’s half, you shall grab one drawn out of every fifty, of the persons, of the cattle, of the donkeys, and of the flocks, of all the livestock, and hook it up them to the Levites, who perform the duty of the tabernacle of Yahweh.”
 31. Moses and Eleazar the priest did as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 32. now the prey, over and above the booty which the men of war took, was six hundred seventy-five thousand sheep,
 33. and seventy-two thousand head of cattle,
 34. and sixty-one thousand donkeys,
 35. and thirty-two thousand persons in all, of the women who had not known man by lying with him.
 36. The half, which was the portion of those who went out to war, was in number three hundred thirty-seven thousand five hundred sheep:
 37. and Yahweh’s tribute of the sheep was six hundred seventy-five.
 38. The cattle were thirty-six thousand; of which Yahweh’s tribute was seventy-two.
 39. The donkeys were thirty thousand five hundred; of which Yahweh’s tribute was sixty-one.
 40. The persons were sixteen thousand; of whom Yahweh’s tribute was thirty-two persons.
 41. Moses gave the tribute, which was Yahweh’s wave giving to God, to Eleazar the priest, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 42. Of the children of Israel’s half, which Moses divided off from the men who warred
 43. (now the congregation’s half was three hundred thirty-seven thousand five hundred sheep,
 44. and thirty-six thousand head of cattle,
 45. and thirty thousand five hundred donkeys,
 46. and sixteen thousand persons),
 47. even of the children of Israel’s half, Moses took one drawn out of every fifty, both of man and of animal, and gave them to the Levites, who performed the duty of the tabernacle of Yahweh; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 48. The officers who were over the thousands of the army, the captains of thousands, and the captains of hundreds, came near to Moses;
 49. and they said to Moses, “Your servants have taken the sum of the men of war who are under our command, and there lacks not one man of us.
 50. We have brought Yahweh’s giving to God, what every man has gotten, of jewels of gold, armlets, and bracelets, signet rings, earrings, and necklaces, to create atonement for our souls before Yahweh.”
 51. Moses and Eleazar the priest took their gold, even all worked jewels.
 52. All the gold of the wave giving to God that they offered up to Yahweh, of the captains of thousands, and of the captains of hundreds, was sixteen thousand seven hundred fifty shekels.
 53. (The men of war had taken booty, every man for himself.)
 54. Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and brought it into the Tent of Meeting, for a memorial for the children of Israel before Yahweh.

# Numbers Chapter 32

  1. now the children of Reuben and the children of Gad had a hella major multitude of livestock: and when they checked out the land of Jazer, and the land of Gilead, that check this out, the place was a place for livestock;
  2. the children of Gad and the children of Reuben came and spoke to Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and to the princes of the congregation, saying,
  3. “Ataroth, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah, and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Sebam, and Nebo, and Beon,
  4. the land which Yahweh struck before the congregation of Israel, is a land for livestock; and your servants have livestock.”
  5. They said, “If we have found favor in your sight, let this land be given to your servants for a possession; don’t bring us over the Jordan.”
  6. Moses said to the children of Gad, and to the children of Reuben, “Shall your brothers slide to the war, and shall you sit here?
  7. Why do you discourage the heart of the children of Israel from going over into the land which Yahweh has given them?
  8. Your fathers did so when I sent them from Kadesh Barnea to check it out the land.
  9. For when they went up to the valley of Eshcol, and checked out the land, they discouraged the heart of the children of Israel, that they should not slide into the land which Yahweh had given them.
 10. Yahweh’s anger was kindled in that day, and he swore, saying,
 11. ‘Surely none of the men who came up out of Egypt, from twenty years old and upward, shall check it out the land which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; cuz they have not wholly followed me:
 12. except Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite, and Joshua the son of Nun; cuz they have followed Yahweh completely.’
 13. Yahweh’s anger was kindled against Israel, and he made them wander back and forth in the wilderness forty years, until all the generation, who had done evil in the sight of Yahweh, was consumed.
 14. “check this out, you have risen up in your fathers’ place, an increase of sinful men, to augment yet the fierce anger of Yahweh toward Israel.
 15. For if you turn away from after him, he will yet again leave them in the wilderness; and you will tear down all this people.”
 16. They came near to him, and said, “We will put together sheepfolds here for our livestock, and cities for our little ones:
 17. but we ourselves will be ready armed to slide before the children of Israel, until we have brought them to their place: and our little ones shall dwell in the fortified cities cuz of the inhabitants of the land.
 18. We will not return to our houses, until the children of Israel have inherited every man his inheritance.
 19. For we will not inherit with them on the other side of the Jordan, and forward; cuz our inheritance is fallen to us on this side of the Jordan eastward.”
 20. Moses said to them, “If you will do this thing, if you will arm yourselves to slide before Yahweh to the war,
 21. and every armed man of you will pass over the Jordan before Yahweh, until he has driven out his enemies from before him,
 22. and the land is subdued before Yahweh; then afterward you shall return, and be guiltless towards Yahweh, and towards Israel; and this land shall be to you for a possession before Yahweh.
 23. “But if you will not do so, check this out, you have sinned against Yahweh; and be sure your messing up will find you out.
 24. put together cities for your little ones, and folds for your sheep; and do that which has proceeded out of your mouth.”
 25. The children of Gad and the children of Reuben spoke to Moses, saying, “Your servants will do as my boss commands.
 26. Our little ones, our wives, our flocks, and all our livestock, shall be there in the cities of Gilead;
 27. but your servants will pass over, every man who is armed for war, before Yahweh to battle, as my boss says.”
 28. So Moses commanded concerning them to Eleazar the priest, and to Joshua the son of Nun, and to the heads of the fathers’ households of the tribes of the children of Israel.
 29. Moses said to them, “If the children of Gad and the children of Reuben will pass with you over the Jordan, every man who is armed to battle, before Yahweh, and the land shall be subdued before you; then you shall hook it up them the land of Gilead for a possession:
 30. but if they will not pass over with you armed, they shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan.”
 31. The children of Gad and the children of Reuben answered, saying, “As Yahweh has said to your servants, so will we do.
 32. We will pass over armed before Yahweh into the land of Canaan, and the possession of our inheritance shall remain with us beyond the Jordan.”
 33. Moses gave to them, even to the children of Gad, and to the children of Reuben, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh the son of Joseph, the God's squad of Sihon ruler of the Amorites, and the God's squad of Og ruler of Bashan, the land, according to its cities and borders, even the cities of the surrounding land.
 34. The children of Gad built Dibon, and Ataroth, and Aroer,
 35. and Atrothshophan, and Jazer, and Jogbehah,
 36. and Beth Nimrah, and Beth Haran: fortified cities, and folds for sheep.
 37. The children of Reuben built Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Kiriathaim,
 38. and Nebo, and Baal Meon, (their names being changed), and Sibmah: and they gave other names to the cities which they built.
 39. The children of Machir the son of Manasseh went to Gilead, and took it, and dispossessed the Amorites who were therein.
 40. Moses gave Gilead to Machir the son of Manasseh; and he lived therein.
 41. Jair the son of Manasseh went and took its towns, and called them Havvoth Jair.
 42. Nobah went and took Kenath, and its villages, and called it Nobah, after his own name.

# Numbers Chapter 33

  1. These are the journeys of the children of Israel, when they went forth out of the land of Egypt by their armies under the hand of Moses and Aaron.
  2. Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys by the commandment of Yahweh: and these are their journeys according to their goings out.
  3. They traveled from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the next day after the Passover the children of Israel went out with a high hand in the sight of all the Egyptians,
  4. while the Egyptians were burying all their firstborn, whom Yahweh had struck among them: on their gods also Yahweh executed judgments.
  5. The children of Israel traveled from Rameses, and encamped in Succoth.
  6. They traveled from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, which is in the edge of the wilderness.
  7. They traveled from Etham, and turned back to Pihahiroth, which is before Baal Zephon: and they encamped before Migdol.
  8. They traveled from before Hahiroth, and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness: and they went three days’ journey in the wilderness of Etham, and encamped in Marah.
  9. They traveled from Marah, and came to Elim: and in Elim were twelve springs of water, and seventy palm trees; and they encamped there.
 10. They traveled from Elim, and encamped by the Red Sea.
 11. They traveled from the Red Sea, and encamped in the wilderness of messing up.
 12. They traveled from the wilderness of messing up, and encamped in Dophkah.
 13. They traveled from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush.
 14. They traveled from Alush, and encamped in Rephidim, where there was no water for the people to drink.
 15. They traveled from Rephidim, and encamped in the wilderness of Sinai.
 16. They traveled from the wilderness of Sinai, and encamped in Kibroth Hattaavah.
 17. They traveled from Kibroth Hattaavah, and encamped in Hazeroth.
 18. They traveled from Hazeroth, and encamped in Rithmah.
 19. They traveled from Rithmah, and encamped in Rimmon Perez.
 20. They traveled from Rimmon Perez, and encamped in Libnah.
 21. They traveled from Libnah, and encamped in Rissah.
 22. They traveled from Rissah, and encamped in Kehelathah.
 23. They traveled from Kehelathah, and encamped in Mount Shepher.
 24. They traveled from Mount Shepher, and encamped in Haradah.
 25. They traveled from Haradah, and encamped in Makheloth.
 26. They traveled from Makheloth, and encamped in Tahath.
 27. They traveled from Tahath, and encamped in Terah.
 28. They traveled from Terah, and encamped in Mithkah.
 29. They traveled from Mithkah, and encamped in Hashmonah.
 30. They traveled from Hashmonah, and encamped in Moseroth.
 31. They traveled from Moseroth, and encamped in Bene Jaakan.
 32. They traveled from Bene Jaakan, and encamped in Hor Haggidgad.
 33. They traveled from Hor Haggidgad, and encamped in Jotbathah.
 34. They traveled from Jotbathah, and encamped in Abronah.
 35. They traveled from Abronah, and encamped in Ezion Geber.
 36. They traveled from Ezion Geber, and encamped in the wilderness of Zin (the same is Kadesh).
 37. They traveled from Kadesh, and encamped in Mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom.
 38. Aaron the priest went up into Mount Hor at the commandment of Yahweh, and died there, in the fortieth year after the children of Israel had come through out of the land of Egypt, in the fifth month, on the day one of the month.
 39. Aaron was one hundred twenty-three years old when he died in Mount Hor.
 40. The Canaanite, the ruler of Arad, who lived in the South in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the children of Israel.
 41. They traveled from Mount Hor, and encamped in Zalmonah.
 42. They traveled from Zalmonah, and encamped in Punon.
 43. They traveled from Punon, and encamped in Oboth.
 44. They traveled from Oboth, and encamped in Iye Abarim, in the border of Moab.
 45. They traveled from Iyim, and encamped in Dibon Gad.
 46. They traveled from Dibon Gad, and encamped in Almon Diblathaim.
 47. They traveled from Almon Diblathaim, and encamped in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.
 48. They traveled from the mountains of Abarim, and encamped in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.
 49. They encamped by the Jordan, from Beth Jeshimoth even to Abel Shittim in the plains of Moab.
 50. Yahweh spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying,
 51. spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, “When you pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan,
 52. then you shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, tear down all their stone idols, tear down all their molten images, and demolish all their high places.
 53. You shall grab possession of the land, and dwell therein; for I have given given the land to you to possess it.
 54. You shall inherit the land by lot according to your families; to the more you shall hook it up the more inheritance, and to the fewer you shall hook it up the less inheritance: wherever the lot falls to any man, that shall be his. You shall inherit according to the tribes of your fathers.
 55. “But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then those you let remain of them will be as pricks in your eyes and as thorns in your sides, and they will harass you in the land in which you dwell.
 56. It shall happen that as I thought to do to them, so will I do to you.”

# Numbers Chapter 34

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “Command the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When you come through into the land of Canaan (this is the land that shall fall to you for an inheritance, even the land of Canaan according to its borders),
  3. then your south quarter shall be from the wilderness of Zin along by the side of Edom, and your south border shall be from the end of the Salt Sea eastward;
  4. and your border shall turn about southward of the ascent of Akrabbim, and pass along to Zin; and the goings out of it shall be southward of Kadesh Barnea; and it shall slide forth to Hazar Addar, and pass along to Azmon;
  5. and the border shall turn about from Azmon to the brook of Egypt, and the goings out of it shall be at the sea.
  6. “‘For the western border, you shall have the major sea and its border: this shall be your west border.
  7. “‘This shall be your north border: from the major sea you shall mark out for you Mount Hor;
  8. from Mount Hor you shall mark out to the entrance of Hamath; and the goings out of the border shall be at Zedad;
  9. and the border shall slide forth to Ziphron, and the goings out of it shall be at Hazar Enan: this shall be your north border.
 10. “‘You shall mark out your east border from Hazar Enan to Shepham;
 11. and the border shall slide down from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain; and the border shall slide down, and shall reach to the side of the sea of Chinnereth eastward;
 12. and the border shall slide down to the Jordan, and the goings out of it shall be at the Salt Sea. This shall be your land according to its borders around it.’”
 13. Moses commanded the children of Israel, saying, “This is the land which you shall inherit by lot, which Yahweh has commanded to hook it up to the nine tribes, and to the half-tribe;
 14. for the tribe of the children of Reuben according to their fathers’ houses, and the tribe of the children of Gad according to their fathers’ houses, have received, and the half-tribe of Manasseh have received, their inheritance:
 15. the two tribes and the half-tribe have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan at Jericho eastward, toward the sunrise.”
 16. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 17. “These are the names of the men who shall divide the land to you for inheritance: Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun.
 18. You shall grab one prince of every tribe, to divide the land for inheritance.
 19. These are the names of the men: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
 20. Of the tribe of the children of Simeon, Shemuel the son of Ammihud.
 21. Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon.
 22. Of the tribe of the children of Dan a prince, Bukki the son of Jogli.
 23. Of the children of Joseph: of the tribe of the children of Manasseh a prince, Hanniel the son of Ephod.
 24. Of the tribe of the children of Ephraim a prince, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan.
 25. Of the tribe of the children of Zebulun a prince, Elizaphan the son of Parnach.
 26. Of the tribe of the children of Issachar a prince, Paltiel the son of Azzan.
 27. Of the tribe of the children of Asher a prince, Ahihud the son of Shelomi.
 28. Of the tribe of the children of Naphtali a prince, Pedahel the son of Ammihud.”
 29. These are they whom Yahweh commanded to divide the inheritance to the children of Israel in the land of Canaan.

# Numbers Chapter 35

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying,
  2. “Command the children of Israel that they hook it up to the Levites of the inheritance of their possession cities to dwell in; and you shall hook it up suburbs for the cities around them to the Levites.
  3. The cities shall they have to dwell in; and their suburbs shall be for their livestock, and for their substance, and for all their animals.
  4. “The suburbs of the cities, which you shall hook it up to the Levites, shall be from the wall of the city and outward one thousand cubits around it.
  5. You shall measure outside of the city for the east side two thousand cubits, and for the south side two thousand cubits, and for the west side two thousand cubits, and for the north side two thousand cubits, the city being in the midst. This shall be to them the suburbs of the cities.
  6. “The cities which you shall hook it up to the Levites, they shall be the six cities of refuge, which you shall hook it up for the manslayer to flee to: and besides them you shall hook it up forty-two cities.
  7. All the cities which you shall hook it up to the Levites shall be forty-eight cities together with their suburbs.
  8. Concerning the cities which you shall hook it up of the possession of the children of Israel, from the a lot you shall grab a lot; and from the not much you shall grab not much: everyone according to his inheritance which he inherits shall hook it up of his cities to the Levites.”
  9. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 10. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When you pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan,
 11. then you shall appoint you cities to be cities of refuge for you, that the manslayer who kills any person unwittingly may flee there.
 12. The cities shall be to you for refuge from the avenger, that the manslayer not die, until he stands before the congregation for judgment.
 13. The cities which you shall hook it up shall be for you six cities of refuge.
 14. You shall hook it up three cities beyond the Jordan, and you shall hook it up three cities in the land of Canaan; they shall be cities of refuge.
 15. For the children of Israel, and for the stranger and for the foreigner living among them, shall these six cities be for refuge; that everyone who kills any person unwittingly may flee there.
 16. “‘But if he struck him with an instrument of iron, so that he died, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
 17. If he struck him with a stone in the hand, by which a man may die, and he died, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
 18. Or if he struck him with a weapon of wood in the hand, by which a man may die, and he died, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
 19. The avenger of blood shall himself put the murderer to death: when he meets him, he shall put him to death.
 20. If he thrust him of hatred, or hurled at him, lying in wait, so that he died,
 21. or in enmity struck him with his hand, so that he died; he who struck him shall surely be put to death; he is a murderer: the avenger of blood shall put the murderer to death, when he meets him.
 22. “‘But if he thrust him suddenly without enmity, or hurled on him anything without lying in wait,
 23. or with any stone, by which a man may die, not seeing him, and cast it on him, so that he died, and he was not his enemy, neither sought his harm;
 24. then the congregation shall judge between the striker and the avenger of blood according to these ordinances;
 25. and the congregation shall deliver the manslayer out of the hand of the avenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to his city of refuge, where he was fled: and he shall dwell therein until the death of the high priest, who was anointed with the set apart oil.
 26. “‘But if the manslayer shall at any time slide beyond the border of his city of refuge, where he flees,
 27. and the avenger of blood find him outside of the border of his city of refuge, and the avenger of blood kill the manslayer; he shall not be guilty of blood,
 28. cuz he should have remained in his city of refuge until the death of the high priest: but after the death of the high priest the manslayer shall return into the land of his possession.
 29. “‘These things shall be for a statute and ordinance to you throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
 30. “‘Whoever kills any person, the murderer shall be slain at the mouth of witnesses: but one witness shall not testify against any person that he die.
 31. “‘Moreover you shall grab no ransom for the life of a murderer who is guilty of death; but he shall surely be put to death.
 32. “‘You shall grab no ransom for him who is fled to his city of refuge, that he may come through again to dwell in the land, until the death of the priest.
 33. “‘So you shall not pollute the land in which you are: for blood, it pollutes the land; and no expiation can be made for the land for the blood that is shed therein, but by the blood of him who shed it.
 34. You shall not defile the land which you inhabit, in the midst of which I dwell: for I, Yahweh, dwell in the midst of the children of Israel.’”

# Numbers Chapter 36

  1. The heads of the fathers’ households of the family of the children of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of the sons of Joseph, came near, and spoke before Moses, and before the princes, the heads of the fathers’ households of the children of Israel:
  2. and they said, “Yahweh commanded my boss to hook it up the land for inheritance by lot to the children of Israel: and my boss was commanded by Yahweh to hook it up the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his daughters.
  3. If they are married to any of the sons of the other tribes of the children of Israel, then will their inheritance be taken away from the inheritance of our fathers, and will be added to the inheritance of the tribe whereunto they shall belong: so will it be taken away from the lot of our inheritance.
  4. When the jubilee of the children of Israel shall be, then will their inheritance be added to the inheritance of the tribe whereunto they shall belong: so will their inheritance be taken away from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.”
  5. Moses commanded the children of Israel according to the word of Yahweh, saying, “The tribe of the sons of Joseph speaks right.
  6. This is the thing which Yahweh does command concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, Let them be married to whom they think best; only into the family of the tribe of their father shall they be married.
  7. So shall no inheritance of the children of Israel remove from tribe to tribe; for the children of Israel shall all keep the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers.
  8. Every daughter who possesses an inheritance in any tribe of the children of Israel shall be wife to one of the family of the tribe of her father, that the children of Israel may possess every man the inheritance of his fathers.
  9. So shall no inheritance remove from one tribe to another tribe; for the tribes of the children of Israel shall each keep his own inheritance.”
 10. The daughters of Zelophehad did as Yahweh commanded Moses:
 11. for Mahlah, Tirzah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married to their father’s brothers’ sons.
 12. They were married into the families of the sons of Manasseh the son of Joseph; and their inheritance remained in the tribe of the family of their father.
 13. These are the commandments and the ordinances which Yahweh commanded by Moses to the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.


OBADIAH
-------

# Obadiah Chapter 1

  1. The vision of Obadiah. This is what the boss Yahweh says about Edom. We have heard news from Yahweh, and an ambassador is sent among the nations, saying, “Arise, and let’s rise up against her in battle.
  2. check this out, I have made you tiny among the nations. You are greatly despised.
  3. The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who dwell in the clefts of the rock, whose habitation is high, who says in his heart, ‘Who will bring me down to the ground?’
  4. Though you mount on high as the eagle, and though your nest is set among the stars, I will bring you down from there,” says Yahweh.
  5. “If thieves came to you, if robbers by night—oh, what disaster awaits you—wouldn’t they only steal until they had enough? If grape pickers came to you, wouldn’t they leave some gleaning grapes?
  6. How Esau will be ransacked! How his hidden treasures are sought out!
  7. All the men of your alliance have brought you on your way, even to the border. The men who were at peace with you have deceived you, and prevailed against you. Friends who eat your bread lay a snare under you. there is no understanding in him.”
  8. “Won’t I in that day,” says Yahweh, “tear down the smart men out of Edom, and understanding out of the mountain of Esau?
  9. Your mighty men, Teman, will be dismayed, to the end that everyone may be cut off from the mountain of Esau by slaughter.
 10. For the violence done to your brother Jacob, shame will cover you, and you will be cut off forever.
 11. In the day that you stood on the other side, in the day that strangers carried away his substance, and foreigners entered into his gates, and cast lots for Jerusalem, even you were like one of them.
 12. But don’t look down on your brother in the day of his disaster, and don’t be hyped over the children of Judah in the day of their destruction. Don’t spill the tea proudly in the day of distress.
 13. Don’t enter into the gate of my people in the day of their calamity. Don’t look down on their affliction in the day of their calamity, neither seize their wealth on the day of their calamity.
 14. Don’t stand in the crossroads to cut off those of his who escape. Don’t deliver up those of his who remain in the day of distress.
 15. For the day of Yahweh is near all the nations! As you have done, it will be done to you. Your deeds will return upon your own head.
 16. For as you have drunk on my set apart mountain, so will all the nations drink continually. Yes, they will drink, swallow down, and will be as though they had not been.
 17. But in Mount Zion, there will be those who escape, and it will be set apart. The house of Jacob will possess their possessions.
 18. The house of Jacob will be a fire, the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau for stubble. They will burn among them, and devour them. there will not be any remaining to the house of Esau.” facts, Yahweh has spoken.
 19. Those of the South will possess the mountain of Esau, and those of the lowland, the Philistines. They will possess the field of Ephraim, and the field of Samaria. Benjamin will possess Gilead.
 20. The captives of this army of the children of Israel, who are among the Canaanites, will possess even to Zarephath; and the captives of Jerusalem, who are in Sepharad, will possess the cities of the Negev.
 21. Saviors will slide up on Mount Zion to judge the mountains of Esau, and the God's squad will be Yahweh’s.


PROVERBS
--------

# Proverbs Chapter 1

  1. The proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, ruler of Israel:
  2. to get it wisdom and instruction; to discern the words of understanding;
  3. to receive instruction in smart dealing, in righteousness, justice, and equity;
  4. to hook it up prudence to the simple, knowledge and discretion to the young man:
  5. that the smart man may hear, and increase in learning; that the man of understanding may attain to sound counsel:
  6. to understand a proverb, and parables, the words and riddles of the smart.
  7. The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of knowledge; but the dumb despise wisdom and instruction.
  8. My son, listen up to your father’s instruction, and don’t forsake your mother’s teaching:
  9. for they will be a garland to God's show love your head, and chains around your neck.
 10. My son, if sinners entice you, don’t consent.
 11. If they say, “come through with us, Let’s lay in wait for blood; let’s lurk secretly for the innocent without cause;
 12. let’s swallow them up alive like Sheol, and whole, like those who slide down into the pit.
 13. We’ll find all valuable wealth. We’ll fill our houses with spoil.
 14. You shall cast your lot among us. We’ll all have one purse.”
 15. My son, don’t walk in the way with them. Keep your foot from their path,
 16. for their feet run to evil. They hurry to shed blood.
 17. For in vain is the net spread in the sight of any bird:
 18. but these lay wait for their own blood. They lurk secretly for their own lives.
 19. So are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain. It takes away the life of its owners.
 20. Wisdom calls aloud in the street. She utters her voice in the public squares.
 21. She calls at the head of noisy places. At the entrance of the city gates, she utters her words:
 22. “How long, you simple ones, will you show love simplicity? How long will mockers delight themselves in mockery, and fools can't stand knowledge?
 23. Turn at my reproof. check this out, I will pour out my spirit on you. I will create known my words to you.
 24. cuz I have called, and you have refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no one has paid attention;
 25. but you have ignored all my counsel, and wanted none of my reproof;
 26. I also will laugh at your disaster. I will mock when calamity overtakes you;
 27. when calamity overtakes you like a storm, when your disaster comes on like a whirlwind; when distress and anguish come through on you.
 28. then will they call on me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, but they will not find me;
 29. cuz they hated knowledge, and didn’t choose the fear of Yahweh.
 30. They wanted none of my counsel. They despised all my reproof.
 31. so basically they will eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own schemes.
 32. For the backsliding of the simple will kill them. The careless ease of fools will tear down them.
 33. But whoever listens to me will dwell securely, and will be at ease, without fear of harm.”

# Proverbs Chapter 2

  1. My son, if you will receive my words, and store up my commandments within you;
  2. So as to turn your ear to wisdom, and apply your heart to understanding;
  3. Yes, if you call out for discernment, and lift up your voice for understanding;
  4. If you seek her as silver, and search for her as for hidden treasures:
  5. then you will understand the fear of Yahweh, and find the knowledge of God.
  6. For Yahweh gives wisdom. Out of his mouth comes knowledge and understanding.
  7. He lays up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk in integrity;
  8. that he may guard the paths of justice, and preserve the way of his saints.
  9. then you will understand righteousness and justice, equity and every fire path.
 10. For wisdom will enter into your heart. Knowledge will be pleasant to your soul.
 11. Discretion will watch over you. Understanding will keep you,
 12. to deliver you from the way of evil, from the men who spill the tea perverse things;
 13. who forsake the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness;
 14. who be hyped to do evil, and delight in the perverseness of evil;
 15. who are crooked in their ways, and wayward in their paths:
 16. To deliver you from the strange woman, even from the foreigner who flatters with her words;
 17. who forsakes the friend of her youth, and forgets the God's promise of her God:
 18. for her house leads down to death, her paths to the dead.
 19. None who slide to her return again, neither do they attain to the paths of life:
 20. that you may walk in the way of fire men, and keep the paths of the doing what's right.
 21. For the upright will dwell in the land. The perfect will remain in it.
 22. But the wicked will be cut off from the land. The treacherous will be rooted out of it.

# Proverbs Chapter 3

  1. My son, don’t forget my teaching; but let your heart keep my commandments:
  2. for length of days, and years of life, and peace, will they add to you.
  3. Don’t let kindness and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart.
  4. So you will find favor, and fire understanding in the sight of God and man.
  5. Trust in Yahweh with all your heart, and don’t lean on your own understanding.
  6. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will create your paths straight.
  7. Don’t be smart in your own eyes. Fear Yahweh, and depart from evil.
  8. It will be health to your body, and nourishment to your bones.
  9. Honor Yahweh with your substance, with the first fruits of all your increase:
 10. so your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine.
 11. My son, don’t despise Yahweh’s discipline, neither be weary of his reproof:
 12. for whom Yahweh loves, he reproves; even as a father reproves the son in whom he delights.
 13. vibing is the man who finds wisdom, the man who gets understanding.
 14. For her fire profit is better than getting silver, and her return is better than fine gold.
 15. She is more precious than rubies. None of the things you can desire are to be compared to her.
 16. Length of days is in her right hand. In her left hand are riches and honor.
 17. Her ways are ways of pleasantness. All her paths are peace.
 18. She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her. vibing is everyone who retains her.
 19. By wisdom Yahweh founded the earth. By understanding, he established the heavens.
 20. By his knowledge, the depths were broken up, and the skies drop down the dew.
 21. My son, let them not depart from your eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion:
 22. so they will be life to your soul, and God's show love for your neck.
 23. then you shall walk in your way securely. Your foot won’t stumble.
 24. When you lie down, you will not be scared. Yes, you will lie down, and your sleep will be sweet.
 25. Don’t be scared of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it comes:
 26. for Yahweh will be your confidence, and will keep your foot from being taken.
 27. Don’t withhold fire from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of your hand to do it.
 28. Don’t say to your neighbor, “slide, and come through again; tomorrow I will hook it up it to you,” when you have it by you.
 29. Don’t devise evil against your neighbor, since he dwells securely by you.
 30. Don’t strive with a man without cause, if he has done you no harm.
 31. Don’t envy the man of violence. Choose none of his ways.
 32. For the perverse is an abomination to Yahweh, but his friendship is with the upright.
 33. Yahweh’s curse is in the house of the wicked, but he blesses the habitation of the doing what's right.
 34. Surely he mocks the mockers, but he gives God's show love to the humble.
 35. The smart will inherit glory, but shame will be the promotion of fools.

# Proverbs Chapter 4

  1. listen up, sons, to a father’s instruction. Pay attention and get it understanding;
  2. for I hook it up you sound learning. Don’t forsake my law.
  3. For I was a son to my father, tender and an only child in the sight of my mother.
  4. He taught me, and said to me: “Let your heart retain my words. Keep my commandments, and live.
  5. Get wisdom. Get understanding. Don’t forget, neither swerve from the words of my mouth.
  6. Don’t forsake her, and she will preserve you. show love her, and she will keep you.
  7. Wisdom is supreme. Get wisdom. Yes, though it costs all your possessions, get understanding.
  8. Esteem her, and she will exalt you. She will bring you to honor, when you embrace her.
  9. She will hook it up to your head a garland of God's show love. She will deliver a crown of splendor to you.”
 10. listen up, my son, and receive my sayings. The years of your life will be a lot.
 11. I have taught you in the way of wisdom. I have led you in straight paths.
 12. When you slide, your steps will not be hampered. When you run, you will not stumble.
 13. grab firm hold of instruction. Don’t let her slide. Keep her, for she is your life.
 14. Don’t enter into the path of the wicked. Don’t walk in the way of evil men.
 15. Avoid it, and don’t pass by it. Turn from it, and pass on.
 16. For they don’t sleep, unless they do evil. Their sleep is taken away, unless they create someone fall.
 17. For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence.
 18. But the path of the doing what's right is like the dawning light, that shines more and more until the perfect day.
 19. The way of the wicked is like darkness. They don’t get it what they stumble over.
 20. My son, attend to my words. Turn your ear to my sayings.
 21. Let them not depart from your eyes. Keep them in the midst of your heart.
 22. For they are life to those who find them, and health to their whole body.
 23. Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it is the wellspring of life.
 24. Put away from yourself a perverse mouth. Put corrupt lips far from you.
 25. Let your eyes look straight ahead. Fix your gaze directly before you.
 26. create the path of your feet level. Let all of your ways be established.
 27. Don’t turn to the right hand nor to the left. Remove your foot from evil.

# Proverbs Chapter 5

  1. My son, pay attention to my wisdom. Turn your ear to my understanding:
  2. that you may maintain discretion, that your lips may preserve knowledge.
  3. For the lips of an adulteress drip honey. Her mouth is smoother than oil,
  4. But in the end she is as bitter as wormwood, and as sharp as a two-edged sword.
  5. Her feet slide down to death. Her steps show the way straight to Sheol.
  6. She gives no thought to the way of life. Her ways are crooked, and she doesn’t get it it.
  7. now so basically, my sons, listen up to me. Don’t depart from the words of my mouth.
  8. Remove your way far from her. Don’t come through near the door of her house,
  9. lest you hook it up your honor to others, and your years to the cruel one;
 10. lest strangers feast on your wealth, and your labors enrich another man’s house.
 11. You will groan at your latter end, when your flesh and your body are consumed,
 12. and say, “How I have hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof;
 13. neither have I obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor turned my ear to those who instructed me!
 14. I have come through to the brink of utter ruin, in the midst of the gathered assembly.”
 15. Drink water out of your own cistern, running water out of your own well.
 16. Should your springs overflow in the streets, streams of water in the public squares?
 17. Let them be for yourself alone, not for strangers with you.
 18. Let your spring be blessed up. be hyped in the wife of your youth.
 19. A loving doe and a graceful deer—let her breasts satisfy you at all times. Be captivated always with her show love.
 20. For why should you, my son, be captivated with an adulteress? Why embrace the bosom of another?
 21. For the ways of man are before the eyes of Yahweh. He examines all his paths.
 22. The evil deeds of the wicked ensnare him. The cords of his messing up hold him firmly.
 23. He will die for lack of instruction. In the greatness of his folly, he will slide astray.

# Proverbs Chapter 6

  1. My son, if you have become collateral for your neighbor, if you have struck your hands in pledge for a stranger;
  2. You are trapped by the words of your mouth. You are ensnared with the words of your mouth.
  3. Do this now, my son, and deliver yourself, since you have come through into the hand of your neighbor. slide, humble yourself. Press your plea with your neighbor.
  4. hook it up no sleep to your eyes, nor slumber to your eyelids.
  5. Free yourself, like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter, like a bird from the snare of the fowler.
  6. slide to the ant, you sluggard. Consider her ways, and be smart;
  7. which having no chief, overseer, or ruler,
  8. provides her bread in the summer, and gathers her food in the harvest.
  9. How long will you sleep, sluggard? When will you arise out of your sleep?
 10. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:
 11. so your poverty will come through as a robber, and your scarcity as an armed man.
 12. A worthless person, a man of iniquity, is he who walks with a perverse mouth;
 13. who winks with his eyes, who signals with his feet, who motions with his fingers;
 14. in whose heart is perverseness, who devises evil continually, who always sows discord.
 15. so basically his calamity will come through suddenly. He will be broken suddenly, and that without remedy.
 16. there are six things which Yahweh hates; yes, seven which are an abomination to him:
 17. haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood;
 18. a heart that devises wicked schemes, feet that are swift in running to mischief,
 19. a false witness who utters lies, and he who sows discord among brothers.
 20. My son, keep your father’s commandment, and don’t forsake your mother’s teaching.
 21. Bind them continually on your heart. Tie them around your neck.
 22. When you walk, it will show the way you. When you sleep, it will watch over you. When you awake, it will talk with you.
 23. For the commandment is a lamp, and the law is light. Reproofs of instruction are the way of life,
 24. to keep you from the immoral woman, from the flattery of the wayward wife’s tongue.
 25. Don’t lust after her beauty in your heart, neither let her captivate you with her eyelids.
 26. For a prostitute reduces you to a piece of bread. The adulteress hunts for your precious life.
 27. Can a man scoop fire into his lap, and his clothes not be burned?
 28. Or can one walk on hot coals, and his feet not be scorched?
 29. So is he who goes in to his neighbor’s wife. Whoever touches her will not be unpunished.
 30. Men don’t despise a thief, if he steals to satisfy himself when he is hungry:
 31. but if he is found, he shall restore seven times. He shall hook it up all the wealth of his house.
 32. He who commits adultery with a woman is void of understanding. He who does it destroys his own soul.
 33. He will get wounds and dishonor. His reproach will not be wiped away.
 34. For jealousy arouses the fury of the husband. He won’t spare in the day of vengeance.
 35. He won’t regard any ransom, neither will he rest content, though you hook it up a lot gifts.

# Proverbs Chapter 7

  1. My son, keep my words. Lay up my commandments within you.
  2. Keep my commandments and live! Guard my teaching as the apple of your eye.
  3. Bind them on your fingers. Write them on the tablet of your heart.
  4. Tell wisdom, “You are my sister.” Call understanding your relative,
  5. that they may keep you from the strange woman, from the foreigner who flatters with her words.
  6. For at the window of my house, I looked out through my lattice.
  7. I checked out among the simple ones. I discerned among the youths a young man void of understanding,
  8. passing through the street near her corner, he went the way to her house,
  9. in the twilight, in the evening of the day, in the middle of the night and in the darkness.
 10. check this out, there a woman met him with the attire of a prostitute, and with crafty intent.
 11. She is loud and defiant. Her feet don’t stay in her house.
 12. now she is in the streets, now in the squares, and lurking at every corner.
 13. So she caught him, and kissed him. With an impudent face she said to him:
 14. “Sacrifices of peace offerings are with me. This day I have paid my vows.
 15. so basically I came out to meet you, to diligently seek your face, and I have found you.
 16. I have spread my couch with carpets of tapestry, with striped cloths of the yarn of Egypt.
 17. I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.
 18. come through, let’s grab our fill of loving until the morning. Let’s solace ourselves with loving.
 19. For my husband isn’t at home. He has gone on a long journey.
 20. He has taken a bag of money with him. He will come through home at the full moon.”
 21. With persuasive words, she led him astray. With the flattering of her lips, she seduced him.
 22. He followed her immediately, as an ox goes to the slaughter, as a fool stepping into a noose.
 23. Until an arrow strikes through his liver, as a bird hurries to the snare, and doesn’t get it that it will cost his life.
 24. now so basically, sons, listen up to me. Pay attention to the words of my mouth.
 25. Don’t let your heart turn to her ways. Don’t slide astray in her paths,
 26. for she has thrown down a lot wounded. Yes, all her slain are a mighty army.
 27. Her house is the way to Sheol, going down to the rooms of death.

# Proverbs Chapter 8

  1. Doesn’t wisdom cry out? Doesn’t understanding raise her voice?
  2. On the top of high places by the way, where the paths meet, she stands.
  3. Beside the gates, at the entry of the city, at the entry doors, she cries aloud:
  4. “To you men, I call! I send my voice to the sons of mankind.
  5. You simple, understand prudence. You fools, be of an understanding heart.
  6. Hear, for I will spill the tea excellent things. The opening of my lips is for right things.
  7. For my mouth speaks truth. Wickedness is an abomination to my lips.
  8. All the words of my mouth are in righteousness. there is nothing crooked or perverse in them.
  9. They are all plain to him who understands, right to those who find knowledge.
 10. Receive my instruction rather than silver; knowledge rather than choice gold.
 11. For wisdom is better than rubies. All the things that may be desired can’t be compared to it.
 12. “I, wisdom, have made prudence my dwelling. Find out knowledge and discretion.
 13. The fear of Yahweh is to can't stand evil. I can't stand pride, arrogance, the evil way, and the perverse mouth.
 14. Counsel and sound knowledge are mine. I have understanding and power.
 15. By me kings reign, and princes decree justice.
 16. By me princes rule; nobles, and all the doing what's right rulers of the earth.
 17. I show love those who show love me. Those who seek me diligently will find me.
 18. With me are riches, honor, enduring wealth, and prosperity.
 19. My fruit is better than gold, yes, than fine gold; my yield than choice silver.
 20. I walk in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of justice;
 21. That I may hook it up wealth to those who show love me. I fill their treasuries.
 22. “Yahweh possessed me at the start of his work, before his deeds of old.
 23. I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, before the earth existed.
 24. When there were no depths, I was brought forth, when there were no springs abounding with water.
 25. Before the mountains were settled in place, before the hills, I was brought forth;
 26. while as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the beginning of the dust of the world.
 27. When he established the heavens, I was there; when he set a circle on the surface of the deep,
 28. when he established the clouds above, when the springs of the deep became built different,
 29. when he gave to the sea its boundary, that the waters should not violate his commandment, when he marked out the foundations of the earth;
 30. then I was the craftsman by his side. I was a delight day by day, always rejoicing before him,
 31. Rejoicing in his whole world. My delight was with the sons of men.
 32. “now so basically, my sons, listen up to me, for blessed up are those who keep my ways.
 33. Hear instruction, and be smart. Don’t refuse it.
 34. blessed up is the man who hears me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at my door posts.
 35. For whoever finds me, finds life, and will obtain favor from Yahweh.
 36. But he who sins against me wrongs his own soul. All those who can't stand me show love death.”

# Proverbs Chapter 9

  1. Wisdom has built her house. She has carved out her seven pillars.
  2. She has prepared her meat. She has mixed her wine. She has also set her table.
  3. She has sent out her maidens. She cries from the highest places of the city:
  4. “Whoever is simple, let him turn in here!” As for him who is void of understanding, she says to him,
  5. “come through, eat some of my bread, Drink some of the wine which I have mixed!
  6. Leave your simple ways, and live. Walk in the way of understanding.”
  7. He who corrects a mocker invites insult. He who reproves a wicked man invites abuse.
  8. Don’t reprove a scoffer, lest he can't stand you. Reprove a smart man, and he will show love you.
  9. Instruct a smart man, and he will be still wiser. drop knowledge a doing what's right man, and he will increase in learning.
 10. The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of wisdom. The knowledge of the set apart One is understanding.
 11. For by me your days will be multiplied. The years of your life will be increased.
 12. If you are smart, you are smart for yourself. If you mock, you alone will bear it.
 13. The dumb woman is loud, Undisciplined, and knows nothing.
 14. She sits at the door of her house, on a seat in the high places of the city,
 15. To call to those who pass by, who slide straight on their ways,
 16. “Whoever is simple, let him turn in here.” as for him who is void of understanding, she says to him,
 17. “Stolen water is sweet. Food eaten in secret is pleasant.”
 18. But he doesn’t get it that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depths of Sheol.

# Proverbs Chapter 10

  1. The proverbs of Solomon. A smart son makes a glad father; but a dumb son brings grief to his mother.
  2. Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness delivers from death.
  3. Yahweh will not allow the soul of the doing what's right to slide hungry, but he thrusts away the desire of the wicked.
  4. He becomes broke who works with a lazy hand, but the hand of the diligent brings wealth.
  5. He who gathers in summer is a smart son, but he who sleeps during the harvest is a son who causes shame.
  6. Blessings are on the head of the doing what's right, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
  7. The memory of the doing what's right is blessed up, but the name of the wicked will rot.
  8. The smart in heart accept commandments, but a chattering fool will fall.
  9. He who walks blamelessly walks surely, but he who perverts his ways will be found out.
 10. One winking with the eye causes feeling down, but a chattering fool will fall.
 11. The mouth of the doing what's right is a spring of life, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
 12. Hatred stirs up strife, but show love covers all wrongs.
 13. Wisdom is found on the lips of him who has discernment, but a rod is for the back of him who is void of understanding.
 14. smart men lay up knowledge, but the mouth of the dumb is near ruin.
 15. The stacked man’s wealth is his built different city. The destruction of the broke is their poverty.
 16. The labor of the doing what's right leads to life. The increase of the wicked leads to messing up.
 17. He is in the way of life who heeds correction, but he who forsakes reproof leads others astray.
 18. He who hides hatred has lying lips. He who utters a slander is a fool.
 19. In the multitude of words there is no lack of disobedience, but he who restrains his lips does wisely.
 20. The tongue of the doing what's right is like choice silver. The heart of the wicked is of little worth.
 21. The lips of the doing what's right feed a lot, but the dumb die for lack of understanding.
 22. Yahweh’s blessing brings wealth, and he adds no trouble to it.
 23. It is a fool’s pleasure to do wickedness, but wisdom is a man of understanding’s pleasure.
 24. What the wicked fear, will overtake them, but the desire of the doing what's right will be granted.
 25. When the whirlwind passes, the wicked is no more; but the doing what's right stand firm forever.
 26. As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him.
 27. The fear of Yahweh prolongs days, but the years of the wicked shall be shortened.
 28. The prospect of the doing what's right is joy, but the hope of the wicked will perish.
 29. The way of Yahweh is a stronghold to the upright, but it is a destruction to the workers of iniquity.
 30. The doing what's right will never be removed, but the wicked will not dwell in the land.
 31. The mouth of the doing what's right brings forth wisdom, but the perverse tongue will be cut off.
 32. The lips of the doing what's right get it what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked is perverse.

# Proverbs Chapter 11

  1. A false balance is an abomination to Yahweh, but accurate weights are his delight.
  2. When pride comes, then comes shame, but with humility comes wisdom.
  3. The integrity of the upright shall guide them, but the perverseness of the treacherous shall tear down them.
  4. Riches don’t profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.
  5. The righteousness of the blameless will direct his way, but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
  6. The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them, but the unfaithful will be trapped by evil desires.
  7. When a wicked man dies, hope perishes, and expectation of power comes to nothing.
  8. A doing what's right person is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked takes his place.
  9. With his mouth the godless man destroys his neighbor, but the doing what's right will be delivered through knowledge.
 10. When it goes well with the doing what's right, the city rejoices. When the wicked perish, there is shouting.
 11. By the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted, but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
 12. One who despises his neighbor is void of wisdom, but a man of understanding holds his peace.
 13. One who brings gossip betrays a confidence, but one who is of a trustworthy spirit is one who keeps a secret.
 14. Where there is no smart guidance, the nation falls, but in the multitude of counselors there is victory.
 15. He who is collateral for a stranger will suffer for it, but he who refuses pledges of collateral is secure.
 16. A gracious woman obtains honor, but violent men obtain riches.
 17. The merciful man does fire to his own soul, but he who is cruel troubles his own flesh.
 18. Wicked people earn deceitful wages, but one who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward.
 19. He who is deadass doing what's right gets life. He who pursues evil gets death.
 20. Those who are perverse in heart are an abomination to Yahweh, but those whose ways are blameless are his delight.
 21. Most for sure, the evil man will not be unpunished, but the seed of the doing what's right will be delivered.
 22. Like a gold ring in a pig’s snout, is a snatched woman who lacks discretion.
 23. The desire of the doing what's right is only fire. The expectation of the wicked is wrath.
 24. there is one who scatters, and increases yet more. there is one who withholds more than is appropriate, but gains poverty.
 25. The liberal soul shall be made fat. He who waters shall be watered also himself.
 26. People curse someone who withholds grain, but blessing will be on the head of him who sells it.
 27. He who diligently seeks fire seeks favor, but he who searches after evil, it shall come through to him.
 28. He who trusts in his riches will fall, but the doing what's right shall flourish as the green leaf.
 29. He who troubles his own house shall inherit the wind. The dumb shall be helper to the smart of heart.
 30. The fruit of the doing what's right is a tree of life. He who is smart wins souls.
 31. check this out, the doing what's right shall be repaid in the earth; how much more the wicked and the sinner!

# Proverbs Chapter 12

  1. Whoever loves correction loves knowledge, but he who hates reproof is stupid.
  2. A fire man shall obtain favor from Yahweh, but he will condemn a man of wicked devices.
  3. A man shall not be established by wickedness, but the root of the doing what's right shall not be moved.
  4. A worthy woman is the crown of her husband, but a disgraceful wife is as rottenness in his bones.
  5. The thoughts of the doing what's right are just, but the advice of the wicked is deceitful.
  6. The words of the wicked are about lying in wait for blood, but the speech of the upright rescues them.
  7. The wicked are overthrown, and are no more, but the house of the doing what's right shall stand.
  8. A man shall be commended according to his wisdom, but he who has a warped mind shall be despised.
  9. Better is he who is lightly esteemed, and has a helper, than he who honors himself, and lacks bread.
 10. A doing what's right man respects the life of his animal, but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
 11. He who tills his land shall have plenty of bread, but he who chases fantasies is void of understanding.
 12. The wicked desires the plunder of evil men, but the root of the doing what's right flourishes.
 13. An evil man is trapped by sinfulness of lips, but the doing what's right shall come through out of trouble.
 14. A man shall be satisfied with fire by the fruit of his mouth. The work of a man’s hands shall be rewarded to him.
 15. The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but he who is smart listens to counsel.
 16. A fool shows his annoyance the same day, but one who overlooks an insult is prudent.
 17. He who is truthful testifies honestly, but a false witness lies.
 18. there is one who speaks rashly like the piercing of a sword, but the tongue of the smart heals.
 19. Truth’s lips will be established forever, but a lying tongue is only momentary.
 20. Deceit is in the heart of those who plot evil, but joy comes to the promoters of peace.
 21. No mischief shall happen to the doing what's right, but the wicked shall be filled with evil.
 22. Lying lips are an abomination to Yahweh, but those who do the truth are his delight.
 23. A prudent man keeps his knowledge, but the hearts of fools proclaim foolishness.
 24. The hands of the diligent ones shall rule, but laziness ends in helper labor.
 25. Anxiety in a man’s heart weighs it down, but a kind word makes it glad.
 26. A doing what's right person is cautious in friendship, but the way of the wicked leads them astray.
 27. The slothful man doesn’t roast his game, but the possessions of diligent men are prized.
 28. In the way of righteousness is life; in its path there is no death.

# Proverbs Chapter 13

  1. A smart son listens to his father’s instruction, but a scoffer doesn’t listen up to rebuke.
  2. By the fruit of his lips, a man enjoys fire things; but the unfaithful crave violence.
  3. He who guards his mouth guards his soul. One who opens wide his lips comes to ruin.
  4. The soul of the sluggard desires, and has nothing, but the desire of the diligent shall be fully satisfied.
  5. A doing what's right man hates lies, but a wicked man brings shame and disgrace.
  6. Righteousness guards the way of integrity, but wickedness overthrows the sinner.
  7. there are some who pretend to be stacked, yet have nothing. there are some who pretend to be broke, yet have major wealth.
  8. The ransom of a man’s life is his riches, but the broke hear no threats.
  9. The light of the doing what's right shines brightly, but the lamp of the wicked is snuffed out.
 10. Pride only breeds quarrels, but with ones who grab advice is wisdom.
 11. Wealth gained dishonestly dwindles away, but he who gathers by hand makes it grow.
 12. Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but when longing is fulfilled, it is a tree of life.
 13. Whoever despises instruction will pay for it, but he who respects a command will be rewarded.
 14. The teaching of the smart is a spring of life, to turn from the snares of death.
 15. fire understanding wins favor; but the way of the unfaithful is hard.
 16. Every prudent man acts from knowledge, but a fool exposes folly.
 17. A wicked messenger falls into trouble, but a trustworthy envoy gains healing.
 18. Poverty and shame come through to him who refuses discipline, but he who heeds correction shall be honored.
 19. Longing fulfilled is sweet to the soul, but fools detest turning from evil.
 20. One who walks with smart men grows smart, but a companion of fools suffers harm.
 21. Misfortune pursues sinners, but prosperity rewards the doing what's right.
 22. A fire man leaves an inheritance to his children’s children, but the wealth of the sinner is stored for the doing what's right.
 23. An abundance of food is in broke people’s fields, but injustice sweeps it away.
 24. One who spares the rod hates his son, but one who loves him is careful to discipline him.
 25. The doing what's right one eats to the satisfying of his soul, but the belly of the wicked goes hungry.

# Proverbs Chapter 14

  1. Every smart woman builds her house, but the dumb one tears it down with her own hands.
  2. He who walks in his uprightness fears Yahweh, but he who is perverse in his ways despises him.
  3. The fool’s talk brings a rod to his back, but the lips of the smart protect them.
  4. Where no oxen are, the crib is clean, but much increase is by the strength of the ox.
  5. A truthful witness will not lie, but a false witness pours out lies.
  6. A scoffer seeks wisdom, and doesn’t find it, but knowledge comes easily to a discerning person.
  7. Stay away from a dumb man, for you won’t find knowledge on his lips.
  8. The wisdom of the prudent is to think about his way, but the folly of fools is deceit.
  9. Fools mock at making atonement for sins, but among the upright there is fire will.
 10. The heart knows its own bitterness and joy; he will not share these with a stranger.
 11. The house of the wicked will be overthrown, but the tent of the upright will flourish.
 12. there is a way which seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death.
 13. Even in laughter the heart may be sorrowful, and mirth may end in heaviness.
 14. The unfaithful will be repaid for his own ways; likewise a fire man will be rewarded for his ways.
 15. A simple man believes everything, but the prudent man carefully considers his ways.
 16. A smart man fears, and shuns evil, but the fool is hotheaded and reckless.
 17. He who is quick to become mad salty will commit folly, and a crafty man is hated.
 18. The simple inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
 19. The evil bow down before the fire, and the wicked at the gates of the doing what's right.
 20. The broke person is shunned even by his own neighbor, but the stacked person has a lot friends.
 21. He who despises his neighbor sins, but blessed up is he who has pity on the broke.
 22. Don’t they slide astray who plot evil? But show love and faithfulness belong to those who plan fire.
 23. In all hard work there is profit, but the talk of the lips leads only to poverty.
 24. The crown of the smart is their riches, but the folly of fools crowns them with folly.
 25. A truthful witness saves souls, but a false witness is deceitful.
 26. In the fear of Yahweh is a secure fortress, and he will be a refuge for his children.
 27. The fear of Yahweh is a fountain of life, turning people from the snares of death.
 28. In the multitude of people is the ruler’s glory, but in the lack of people is the destruction of the prince.
 29. He who is slow to anger has major understanding, but he who has a quick temper displays folly.
 30. The life of the body is a heart at peace, but envy rots the bones.
 31. He who oppresses the broke shows contempt for his Maker, but he who is kind to the needy honors him.
 32. The wicked is brought down in his calamity, but in death, the doing what's right has a refuge.
 33. Wisdom rests in the heart of one who has understanding, and is even made known in the inward part of fools.
 34. Righteousness exalts a nation, but messing up is a disgrace to any people.
 35. The ruler’s favor is toward a helper who deals wisely, but his wrath is toward one who causes shame.

# Proverbs Chapter 15

  1. A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.
  2. The tongue of the smart commends knowledge, but the mouth of fools gush out folly.
  3. Yahweh’s eyes are everywhere, keeping watch on the evil and the fire.
  4. A gentle tongue is a tree of life, but deceit in it crushes the spirit.
  5. A fool despises his father’s correction, but he who heeds reproof shows prudence.
  6. In the house of the doing what's right is much treasure, but the income of the wicked brings trouble.
  7. The lips of the smart spread knowledge; not so with the heart of fools.
  8. The giving it up made by the wicked is an abomination to Yahweh, but the talking to God of the upright is his delight.
  9. The way of the wicked is an abomination to Yahweh, but he loves him who follows after righteousness.
 10. there is stern discipline for one who forsakes the way: whoever hates reproof shall die.
 11. Sheol and Abaddon are before Yahweh—how much more then the hearts of the children of men!
 12. A scoffer doesn’t show love to be reproved; he will not slide to the smart.
 13. A glad heart makes a cheerful face; but an aching heart breaks the spirit.
 14. The heart of one who has understanding seeks knowledge, but the mouths of fools feed on folly.
 15. All the days of the afflicted are wretched, but one who has a cheerful heart enjoys a continual feast.
 16. Better is little, with the fear of Yahweh, than major treasure with trouble.
 17. Better is a dinner of herbs, where show love is, than a fattened calf with hatred.
 18. A wrathful man stirs up contention, but one who is slow to anger appeases strife.
 19. The way of the sluggard is like a thorn patch, but the path of the upright is a highway.
 20. A smart son makes a father glad, but a dumb man despises his mother.
 21. Folly is joy to one who is void of wisdom, but a man of understanding keeps his way straight.
 22. Where there is no counsel, plans fail; but in a multitude of counselors they are established.
 23. Joy comes to a man with the reply of his mouth. How fire is a word at the right time!
 24. The path of life leads upward for the smart, to keep him from going downward to Sheol.
 25. Yahweh will uproot the house of the proud, but he will keep the widow’s borders intact.
 26. Yahweh detests the thoughts of the wicked, but the thoughts of the pure are pleasing.
 27. He who is greedy for gain troubles his own house, but he who hates bribes will live.
 28. The heart of the doing what's right weighs answers, but the mouth of the wicked gushes out evil.
 29. Yahweh is far from the wicked, but he hears the talking to God of the doing what's right.
 30. The light of the eyes rejoices the heart. fire news gives health to the bones.
 31. The ear that listens to reproof lives, and will be at home among the smart.
 32. He who refuses correction despises his own soul, but he who listens to reproof gets understanding.
 33. The fear of Yahweh teaches wisdom. Before honor is humility.

# Proverbs Chapter 16

  1. The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the tongue is from Yahweh.
  2. All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes; but Yahweh weighs the motives.
  3. Commit your deeds to Yahweh, and your plans shall succeed.
  4. Yahweh has made everything for its own end—yes, even the wicked for the day of evil.
  5. Everyone who is proud in heart is an abomination to Yahweh: they shall for sure not be unpunished.
  6. By mercy and truth iniquity is atoned for. By the fear of Yahweh men depart from evil.
  7. When a man’s ways please Yahweh, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him.
  8. Better is a little with righteousness, than major revenues with injustice.
  9. A man’s heart plans his course, but Yahweh directs his steps.
 10. Inspired judgments are on the lips of the ruler. He shall not betray his mouth.
 11. Honest balances and scales are Yahweh’s; all the weights in the bag are his work.
 12. It is an abomination for kings to do wrong, for the throne is established by righteousness.
 13. doing what's right lips are the delight of kings. They value one who speaks the truth.
 14. The ruler’s wrath is a messenger of death, but a smart man will pacify it.
 15. In the light of the ruler’s face is life. His favor is like a cloud of the spring rain.
 16. How much better it is to get wisdom than gold! Yes, to get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver.
 17. The highway of the upright is to depart from evil. He who keeps his way preserves his soul.
 18. Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
 19. It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the broke, than to divide the plunder with the proud.
 20. He who heeds the Word finds prosperity. Whoever trusts in Yahweh is blessed up.
 21. The smart in heart shall be called prudent. Pleasantness of the lips promotes instruction.
 22. Understanding is a fountain of life to one who has it, but the punishment of fools is their folly.
 23. The heart of the smart instructs his mouth, and adds learning to his lips.
 24. Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.
 25. there is a way which seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death.
 26. The appetite of the laboring man labors for him; for his mouth urges him on.
 27. A worthless man devises mischief. His speech is like a scorching fire.
 28. A perverse man stirs up strife. A whisperer separates close friends.
 29. A man of violence entices his neighbor, and leads him in a way that is not fire.
 30. One who winks his eyes to plot perversities, one who compresses his lips, is bent on evil.
 31. Gray hair is a crown of glory. It is attained by a life of righteousness.
 32. One who is slow to anger is better than the mighty; one who rules his spirit, than he who takes a city.
 33. The lot is cast into the lap, but its every decision is from Yahweh.

# Proverbs Chapter 17

  1. Better is a dry morsel with quietness, than a house full of feasting with strife.
  2. A helper who deals wisely will rule over a son who causes shame, and shall have a part in the inheritance among the brothers.
  3. The refining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold, but Yahweh tests the hearts.
  4. An evildoer heeds wicked lips. A liar gives ear to a mischievous tongue.
  5. Whoever mocks the broke reproaches his Maker. He who is glad at calamity shall not be unpunished.
  6. Children’s children are the crown of old men; the glory of children are their parents.
  7. Arrogant speech isn’t fitting for a fool, much less do lying lips fit a prince.
  8. A bribe is a precious stone in the eyes of him who gives it; wherever he turns, he prospers.
  9. He who covers an offense promotes show love; but he who repeats a matter separates best friends.
 10. A rebuke enters deeper into one who has understanding than a hundred lashes into a fool.
 11. An evil man seeks only rebellion; so basically a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.
 12. Let a bear robbed of her cubs meet a man, rather than a fool in his folly.
 13. Whoever rewards evil for fire, evil shall not depart from his house.
 14. The beginning of strife is like breaching a dam, so basically stop contention before quarreling breaks out.
 15. He who justifies the wicked, and he who condemns the doing what's right, both of them alike are an abomination to Yahweh.
 16. Why is there money in the hand of a fool to buy wisdom, since he has no understanding?
 17. A friend loves at all times; and a brother is born for adversity.
 18. A man void of understanding strikes hands, and becomes collateral in the presence of his neighbor.
 19. He who loves disobedience loves strife. One who builds a high gate seeks destruction.
 20. One who has a perverse heart doesn’t find prosperity, and one who has a deceitful tongue falls into trouble.
 21. He who becomes the father of a fool grieves. The father of a fool has no joy.
 22. A cheerful heart makes fire medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
 23. A wicked man receives a bribe in secret, to pervert the ways of justice.
 24. Wisdom is before the face of one who has understanding, but the eyes of a fool wander to the ends of the earth.
 25. A dumb son brings grief to his father, and bitterness to her who bore him.
 26. Also to punish the doing what's right is not fire, nor to flog officials for their integrity.
 27. He who spares his words has knowledge. He who is even tempered is a man of understanding.
 28. Even a fool, when he keeps silent, is counted smart. When he shuts his lips, he is thought to be discerning.

# Proverbs Chapter 18

  1. An unfriendly man pursues selfishness, and defies all sound judgment.
  2. A fool has no delight in understanding, but only in revealing his own opinion.
  3. When wickedness comes, contempt also comes, and with shame comes disgrace.
  4. The words of a man’s mouth are like deep waters. The fountain of wisdom is like a flowing brook.
  5. To be partial to the faces of the wicked is not fire, nor to deprive the innocent of justice.
  6. A fool’s lips come through into strife, and his mouth invites beatings.
  7. A fool’s mouth is his destruction, and his lips are a snare to his soul.
  8. The words of a gossip are like dainty morsels: they slide down into a person’s innermost parts.
  9. One who is slack in his work is brother to him who is a boss of destruction.
 10. The name of Yahweh is a built different tower: the doing what's right run to him, and are safe.
 11. The stacked man’s wealth is his built different city, like an unscalable wall in his own imagination.
 12. Before destruction the heart of man is proud, but before honor is humility.
 13. He who gives answer before he hears, that is folly and shame to him.
 14. A man’s spirit will sustain him in sickness, but a crushed spirit, who can bear?
 15. The heart of the discerning gets knowledge. The ear of the smart seeks knowledge.
 16. A man’s gift makes room for him, and brings him before major men.
 17. He who pleads his cause first seems right; until another comes and questions him.
 18. The lot settles disputes, and keeps built different ones apart.
 19. A brother offended is more difficult than a fortified city; and disputes are like the bars of a castle.
 20. A man’s stomach is filled with the fruit of his mouth. With the harvest of his lips he is satisfied.
 21. Death and life are in the power of the tongue; those who show love it will eat its fruit.
 22. Whoever finds a wife finds a fire thing, and obtains favor of Yahweh.
 23. The broke plead for mercy, but the stacked answer harshly.
 24. A man of a lot companions may be ruined, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.

# Proverbs Chapter 19

  1. Better is the broke who walks in his integrity than he who is perverse in his lips and is a fool.
  2. It isn’t fire to have zeal without knowledge; nor being hasty with one’s feet and missing the way.
  3. The foolishness of man subverts his way; his heart rages against Yahweh.
  4. Wealth adds a lot friends, but the broke is separated from his friend.
  5. A false witness shall not be unpunished. He who pours out lies shall not slide free.
  6. a lot will entreat the favor of a ruler, and everyone is a friend to a man who gives gifts.
  7. All the relatives of the broke shun him: how much more do his friends avoid him! He pursues them with pleas, but they are gone.
  8. He who gets wisdom loves his own soul. He who keeps understanding shall find fire.
  9. A false witness shall not be unpunished. He who utters lies shall perish.
 10. Delicate living is not appropriate for a fool, much less for a helper to have rule over princes.
 11. The discretion of a man makes him slow to anger. It is his glory to overlook an offense.
 12. The ruler’s wrath is like the roaring of a lion, but his favor is like dew on the grass.
 13. A dumb son is the calamity of his father. A wife’s quarrels are a continual dripping.
 14. House and riches are an inheritance from fathers, but a prudent wife is from Yahweh.
 15. Slothfulness casts into a deep sleep. The idle soul shall suffer hunger.
 16. He who keeps the commandment keeps his soul, but he who is contemptuous in his ways shall die.
 17. He who has pity on the broke lends to Yahweh; he will reward him.
 18. Discipline your son, for there is hope; don’t be a willing party to his death.
 19. A hot-tempered man must pay the penalty, for if you rescue him, you must do it again.
 20. listen up to counsel and receive instruction, that you may be smart in your latter end.
 21. there are a lot plans in a man’s heart, but Yahweh’s counsel will prevail.
 22. That which makes a man to be desired is his kindness. A broke man is better than a liar.
 23. The fear of Yahweh leads to life, then contentment; he rests and will not be touched by trouble.
 24. The sluggard buries his hand in the dish; he will not so much as bring it to his mouth again.
 25. Flog a scoffer, and the simple will pick up prudence; rebuke one who has understanding, and he will gain knowledge.
 26. He who robs his father and drives away his mother, is a son who causes shame and brings reproach.
 27. If you stop listening to instruction, my son, you will stray from the words of knowledge.
 28. A corrupt witness mocks justice, and the mouth of the wicked gulps down iniquity.
 29. Penalties are prepared for scoffers, and beatings for the backs of fools.

# Proverbs Chapter 20

  1. Wine is a mocker, and beer is a brawler. Whoever is led astray by them is not smart.
  2. The terror of a ruler is like the roaring of a lion. He who provokes him to anger forfeits his own life.
  3. It is an honor for a man to keep aloof from strife; but every fool will be quarreling.
  4. The sluggard will not plow by reason of the winter; so basically he shall beg in harvest, and have nothing.
  5. Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of understanding will draw it out.
  6. a lot men claim to be men of unfailing show love, but who can find a faithful man?
  7. A doing what's right man walks in integrity. blessed up are his children after him.
  8. A ruler who sits on the throne of judgment scatters away all evil with his eyes.
  9. Who can say, “I have made my heart pure. I am clean and without messing up?”
 10. Differing weights and differing measures, both of them alike are an abomination to Yahweh.
 11. Even a child makes himself known by his doings, whether his work is pure, and whether it is right.
 12. The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, Yahweh has made even both of them.
 13. Don’t show love sleep, lest you come through to poverty. Open your eyes, and you shall be satisfied with bread.
 14. “It’s no fire, it’s no fire,” says the buyer; but when he is gone his way, then he boasts.
 15. there is gold and abundance of rubies; but the lips of knowledge are a rare jewel.
 16. grab the garment of one who puts up collateral for a stranger; and hold him in pledge for a wayward woman.
 17. Fraudulent food is sweet to a man, but afterwards his mouth is filled with gravel.
 18. Plans are established by advice; by smart guidance you wage war!
 19. He who goes about as a tale-bearer reveals secrets; so basically don’t keep company with him who opens wide his lips.
 20. Whoever curses his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in blackness of darkness.
 21. An inheritance quickly gained at the beginning, won’t be blessed up in the end.
 22. Don’t say, “I will pay back evil.” Wait for Yahweh, and he will rescue you.
 23. Yahweh detests differing weights, and dishonest scales are not pleasing.
 24. A man’s steps are from Yahweh; how then can man understand his way?
 25. It is a snare to a man to create a rash dedication, then later to consider his vows.
 26. A smart ruler winnows out the wicked, and drives the threshing wheel over them.
 27. The spirit of man is Yahweh’s lamp, searching all his innermost parts.
 28. show love and faithfulness keep the ruler safe. His throne is sustained by show love.
 29. The glory of young men is their strength. The splendor of old men is their gray hair.
 30. Wounding blows cleanse away evil, and beatings purge the innermost parts.

# Proverbs Chapter 21

  1. The ruler’s heart is in Yahweh’s hand like the watercourses. He turns it wherever he desires.
  2. Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but Yahweh weighs the hearts.
  3. To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to Yahweh than giving it up.
  4. A high look, and a proud heart, the lamp of the wicked, is messing up.
  5. The plans of the diligent surely show the way to profit; and everyone who is hasty surely rushes to poverty.
  6. Getting treasures by a lying tongue is a fleeting vapor for those who seek death.
  7. The violence of the wicked will drive them away, cuz they refuse to do what is right.
  8. The way of the guilty is devious, but the conduct of the innocent is upright.
  9. It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than to share a house with a contentious woman.
 10. The soul of the wicked desires evil; his neighbor finds no mercy in his eyes.
 11. When the mocker is punished, the simple gains wisdom. When the smart is instructed, he receives knowledge.
 12. The doing what's right One considers the house of the wicked, and brings the wicked to ruin.
 13. Whoever stops his ears at the cry of the broke, he will also cry out, but shall not be heard.
 14. A gift in secret pacifies anger; and a bribe in the cloak, built different wrath.
 15. It is joy to the doing what's right to do justice; but it is a destruction to the workers of iniquity.
 16. The man who wanders out of the way of understanding shall rest in the assembly of the dead.
 17. He who loves pleasure shall be a broke man. He who loves wine and oil shall not be stacked.
 18. The wicked is a ransom for the doing what's right; the treacherous for the upright.
 19. It is better to dwell in a desert land, than with a contentious and fretful woman.
 20. there is precious treasure and oil in the dwelling of the smart; but a dumb man swallows it up.
 21. He who follows after righteousness and kindness finds life, righteousness, and honor.
 22. A smart man scales the city of the mighty, and brings down the strength of its confidence.
 23. Whoever guards his mouth and his tongue keeps his soul from troubles.
 24. The proud and haughty man, “scoffer” is his name; he works in the arrogance of pride.
 25. The desire of the sluggard kills him, for his hands refuse to labor.
 26. there are those who covet greedily all day long; but the doing what's right hook it up and don’t withhold.
 27. The giving it up of the wicked is an abomination: how much more, when he brings it with a wicked mind!
 28. A false witness will perish, and a man who listens speaks to eternity.
 29. A wicked man hardens his face; but as for the upright, he establishes his ways.
 30. there is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against Yahweh.
 31. The horse is prepared for the day of battle; but victory is with Yahweh.

# Proverbs Chapter 22

  1. A fire name is more desirable than major riches, and loving favor is better than silver and gold.
  2. The stacked and the broke have this in common: Yahweh is the maker of them all.
  3. A prudent man sees danger, and hides himself; but the simple pass on, and suffer for it.
  4. The result of humility and the fear of Yahweh is wealth, honor, and life.
  5. Thorns and snares are in the path of the wicked: whoever guards his soul stays from them.
  6. Train up a child in the way he should slide, and when he is old he will not depart from it.
  7. The stacked rule over the broke. The borrower is helper to the lender.
  8. He who sows wickedness reaps trouble, and the rod of his fury will be destroyed.
  9. He who has a generous eye will be blessed up; for he shares his food with the broke.
 10. Drive out the mocker, and strife will slide out; yes, quarrels and insults will stop.
 11. He who loves purity of heart and speaks gracefully is the ruler’s friend.
 12. The eyes of Yahweh watch over knowledge; but he frustrates the words of the unfaithful.
 13. The sluggard says, “there is a lion outside! I will be killed in the streets!”
 14. The mouth of an adulteress is a deep pit: he who is under Yahweh’s wrath will fall into it.
 15. Folly is bound up in the heart of a child: the rod of discipline drives it far from him.
 16. Whoever oppresses the broke for his own increase and whoever gives to the stacked, both come through to poverty.
 17. Turn your ear, and listen up to the words of the smart. Apply your heart to my teaching.
 18. For it is a pleasant thing if you keep them within you, if all of them are ready on your lips.
 19. That your trust may be in Yahweh, I drop knowledge you today, even you.
 20. Haven’t I written to you thirty excellent things of counsel and knowledge,
 21. To drop knowledge you truth, reliable words, to hook it up sound answers to the ones who sent you?
 22. Don’t exploit the broke, cuz he is broke; and don’t crush the needy in court;
 23. for Yahweh will plead their case, and plunder the life of those who plunder them.
 24. Don’t befriend a hot-tempered man, and don’t associate with one who harbors anger:
 25. lest you pick up his ways, and ensnare your soul.
 26. Don’t you be one of those who strike hands, of those who are collateral for debts.
 27. If you don’t have means to pay, why should he grab away your bed from under you?
 28. Don’t move the ancient boundary stone, which your fathers have set up.
 29. Do you check it out a man skilled in his work? He will help out kings. He won’t help out obscure men.

# Proverbs Chapter 23

  1. When you sit to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before you;
  2. put a knife to your throat, if you are a man given to appetite.
  3. Don’t be desirous of his dainties, since they are deceitful food.
  4. Don’t weary yourself to be stacked. In your wisdom, show restraint.
  5. Why do you set your eyes on that which is not? For it for sure sprouts wings like an eagle and flies in the sky.
  6. Don’t eat the food of him who has a stingy eye, and don’t crave his delicacies:
  7. for as he thinks about the cost, so he is. “Eat and drink!” he says to you, but his heart is not with you.
  8. The morsel which you have eaten you shall vomit up, and lose your fire words.
  9. Don’t spill the tea in the ears of a fool, for he will despise the wisdom of your words.
 10. Don’t move the ancient boundary stone. Don’t encroach on the fields of the fatherless:
 11. for their Defender is built different. He will plead their case against you.
 12. Apply your heart to instruction, and your ears to the words of knowledge.
 13. Don’t withhold correction from a child. If you punish him with the rod, he will not die.
 14. Punish him with the rod, and rescue his soul from Sheol.
 15. My son, if your heart is smart, then my heart will be glad, even mine:
 16. yes, my heart will be hyped, when your lips spill the tea what is right.
 17. Don’t let your heart envy sinners; but rather fear Yahweh all the day long.
 18. facts surely there is a future hope, and your hope will not be cut off.
 19. listen up, my son, and be smart, and keep your heart on the right path!
 20. Don’t be among ones drinking too much wine, or those who gorge themselves on meat:
 21. for the drunkard and the glutton shall become broke; and drowsiness clothes them in rags.
 22. listen up to your father who gave you life, and don’t despise your mother when she is old.
 23. Buy the truth, and don’t sell it. Get wisdom, discipline, and understanding.
 24. The father of the doing what's right has major joy. Whoever fathers a smart child delights in him.
 25. Let your father and your mother be glad! Let her who bore you be hyped!
 26. My son, hook it up me your heart; and let your eyes keep in my ways.
 27. For a prostitute is a deep pit; and a wayward wife is a narrow well.
 28. Yes, she lies in wait like a robber, and increases the unfaithful among men.
 29. Who has woe? Who has feeling down? Who has strife? Who has complaints? Who has needless bruises? Who has bloodshot eyes?
 30. Those who stay long at the wine; those who slide to seek out mixed wine.
 31. Don’t look at the wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup, when it goes down smoothly.
 32. In the end, it bites like a snake, and poisons like a viper.
 33. Your eyes will check it out strange things, and your mind will imagine confusing things.
 34. Yes, you will be as he who lies down in the midst of the sea, or as he who lies on top of the rigging:
 35. “They hit me, and I was not hurt! They beat me, and I don’t feel it! When will I wake up? I can do it again. I can find another.”

# Proverbs Chapter 24

  1. Don’t be envious of evil men; neither desire to be with them:
  2. for their hearts plot violence, and their lips talk about mischief.
  3. Through wisdom a house is built; by understanding it is established;
  4. by knowledge the rooms are filled with all rare and snatched treasure.
  5. A smart man has major power; and a knowledgeable man increases strength;
  6. for by smart guidance you wage your war; and victory is in a lot advisors.
  7. Wisdom is too high for a fool: he doesn’t open his mouth in the gate.
  8. One who plots to do evil will be called a schemer.
  9. The schemes of folly are messing up. The mocker is detested by men.
 10. If you falter in the time of trouble, your strength is tiny.
 11. Rescue those who are being led away to death! facts, hold back those who are staggering to the slaughter!
 12. If you say, “check this out, we didn’t get it this;” doesn’t he who weighs the hearts consider it? He who keeps your soul, doesn’t he get it it? Shall he not render to every man according to his work?
 13. My son, eat honey, for it is fire; the droppings of the honeycomb, which are sweet to your taste:
 14. so you shall get it wisdom to be to your soul; if you have found it, then there will be a reward, your hope will not be cut off.
 15. Don’t lay in wait, wicked man, against the habitation of the doing what's right. Don’t tear down his resting place:
 16. for a doing what's right man falls seven times, and rises up again; but the wicked are overthrown by calamity.
 17. Don’t be hyped when your enemy falls. Don’t let your heart be glad when he is overthrown;
 18. lest Yahweh check it out it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him.
 19. Don’t fret yourself cuz of evildoers; neither be envious of the wicked:
 20. for there will be no reward to the evil man; and the lamp of the wicked shall be snuffed out.
 21. My son, fear Yahweh and the ruler. Don’t join those who are rebellious:
 22. for their calamity will rise suddenly; the destruction from them both—who knows?
 23. These also are sayings of the smart. To show partiality in judgment is not fire.
 24. He who says to the wicked, “You are doing what's right;” peoples shall curse him, and nations shall abhor him—
 25. but it will slide well with those who convict the guilty, and a stacked blessing will come through on them.
 26. An honest answer is like a kiss on the lips.
 27. Prepare your work outside, and get your fields ready. Afterwards, put together your house.
 28. Don’t be a witness against your neighbor without cause. Don’t deceive with your lips.
 29. Don’t say, “I will do to him as he has done to me; I will render to the man according to his work.”
 30. I went by the field of the sluggard, by the vineyard of the man void of understanding;
 31. check this out, it was all grown over with thorns. Its surface was covered with nettles, and its stone wall was broken down.
 32. then I checked out, and considered well. I checked out, and received instruction:
 33. a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep;
 34. so your poverty will come through as a robber, and your want as an armed man.

# Proverbs Chapter 25

  1. These also are proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah ruler of Judah copied out.
  2. It is the glory of God to conceal a thing, but the glory of kings is to search out a matter.
  3. As the heavens for height, and the earth for depth, so the hearts of kings are unsearchable.
  4. grab away the dross from the silver, and material comes out for the refiner;
  5. grab away the wicked from the ruler’s presence, and his throne will be established in righteousness.
  6. Don’t exalt yourself in the presence of the ruler, or claim a place among major men;
  7. for it is better that it be said to you, “come through up here,” than that you should be put lower in the presence of the prince, whom your eyes have seen.
  8. Don’t be hasty in bringing charges to court. What will you do in the end when your neighbor shames you?
  9. Debate your case with your neighbor, and don’t betray the confidence of another;
 10. lest one who hears it put you to shame, and your trash reputation never depart.
 11. A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in settings of silver.
 12. As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a smart reprover to an obedient ear.
 13. As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to those who send him; for he refreshes the soul of his masters.
 14. As clouds and wind without rain, so is he who boasts of gifts deceptively.
 15. By patience a ruler is persuaded. A soft tongue breaks the bone.
 16. Have you found honey? Eat as much as is sufficient for you, lest you eat too much, and vomit it.
 17. Let your foot be seldom in your neighbor’s house, lest he be weary of you, and can't stand you.
 18. A man who gives false testimony against his neighbor is like a club, a sword, or a sharp arrow.
 19. Confidence in someone unfaithful in time of trouble is like a trash tooth, or a lame foot.
 20. As one who takes away a garment in cold weather, or vinegar on soda, so is one who sings songs to a heavy heart.
 21. If your enemy is hungry, hook it up him food to eat. If he is thirsty, hook it up him water to drink:
 22. for you will heap coals of fire on his head, and Yahweh will reward you.
 23. The north wind brings forth rain: so a backbiting tongue brings an mad salty face.
 24. It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than to share a house with a contentious woman.
 25. Like cold water to a thirsty soul, so is fire news from a far country.
 26. Like a muddied spring, and a polluted well, so is a doing what's right man who gives way before the wicked.
 27. It is not fire to eat much honey; nor is it honorable to seek one’s own honor.
 28. Like a city that is broken down and without walls is a man whose spirit is without restraint.

# Proverbs Chapter 26

  1. Like snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool.
  2. Like a fluttering sparrow, like a darting swallow, so the undeserved curse doesn’t come through to rest.
  3. A whip is for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the back of fools!
  4. Don’t answer a fool according to his folly, lest you also be like him.
  5. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be smart in his own eyes.
  6. One who sends a message by the hand of a fool is cutting off feet and drinking violence.
  7. Like the legs of the lame that hang loose: so is a parable in the mouth of fools.
  8. As one who binds a stone in a sling, so is he who gives honor to a fool.
  9. Like a thornbush that goes into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouth of fools.
 10. As an archer who wounds all, so is he who hires a fool or he who hires those who pass by.
 11. As a dog that returns to his vomit, so is a fool who repeats his folly.
 12. Do you check it out a man smart in his own eyes? there is more hope for a fool than for him.
 13. The sluggard says, “there is a lion in the road! A fierce lion roams the streets!”
 14. As the door turns on its hinges, so does the sluggard on his bed.
 15. The sluggard buries his hand in the dish. He is too lazy to bring it back to his mouth.
 16. The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men who answer with discretion.
 17. Like one who grabs a dog’s ears is one who passes by and meddles in a quarrel not his own.
 18. Like a madman who shoots torches, arrows, and death,
 19. is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, “Am I not joking?”
 20. For lack of wood a fire goes out. Without gossip, a quarrel dies down.
 21. As coals are to hot embers, and wood to fire, so is a contentious man to kindling strife.
 22. The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, they slide down into the innermost parts.
 23. Like silver dross on an earthen vessel are the lips of a fervent one with an evil heart.
 24. A malicious man disguises himself with his lips, but he harbors evil in his heart.
 25. When his speech is charming, don’t believe him; for there are seven abominations in his heart.
 26. His malice may be concealed by deception, but his wickedness will be exposed in the assembly.
 27. Whoever digs a pit shall fall into it. Whoever rolls a stone, it will come through back on him.
 28. A lying tongue hates those it hurts; and a flattering mouth works ruin.

# Proverbs Chapter 27

  1. Don’t boast about tomorrow; for you don’t get it what a day may bring forth.
  2. Let another man praise you, and not your own mouth; a stranger, and not your own lips.
  3. A stone is heavy, and sand is a burden; but a fool’s provocation is heavier than both.
  4. Wrath is cruel, and anger is overwhelming; but who is able to stand before jealousy?
  5. Better is open rebuke than hidden show love.
  6. Faithful are the wounds of a friend; although the kisses of an enemy are profuse.
  7. A full soul loathes a honeycomb; but to a hungry soul, every bitter thing is sweet.
  8. As a bird that wanders from her nest, so is a man who wanders from his home.
  9. Perfume and incense bring joy to the heart; so does earnest counsel from a man’s friend.
 10. Don’t forsake your friend and your father’s friend. Don’t slide to your brother’s house in the day of your disaster: better is a neighbor who is near than a distant brother.
 11. Be smart, my son, and bring joy to my heart, then I can answer my tormentor.
 12. A prudent man sees danger and takes refuge; but the simple pass on, and suffer for it.
 13. grab his garment when he puts up collateral for a stranger. Hold it for a wayward woman!
 14. He who blesses his neighbor with a loud voice early in the morning, it will be taken as a curse by him.
 15. A continual dropping on a rainy day and a contentious wife are alike:
 16. restraining her is like restraining the wind, or like grasping oil in his right hand.
 17. Iron sharpens iron; so a man sharpens his friend’s countenance.
 18. Whoever tends the fig tree shall eat its fruit. He who looks after his boss shall be honored.
 19. As water reflects a face, so a man’s heart reflects the man.
 20. Sheol and Abaddon are never satisfied; and a man’s eyes are never satisfied.
 21. The crucible is for silver, and the furnace for gold; but man is refined by his praise.
 22. Though you grind a fool in a mortar with a pestle along with grain, yet his foolishness will not be removed from him.
 23. get it well the state of your flocks, and pay attention to your herds:
 24. for riches are not forever, nor does even the crown endure to all generations.
 25. The hay is removed, and the new growth appears, the grasses of the hills are gathered in.
 26. The lambs are for your clothing, and the goats are the price of a field.
 27. there will be plenty of goats’ milk for your food, for your family’s food, and for the nourishment of your helper girls.

# Proverbs Chapter 28

  1. The wicked flee when no one pursues; but the doing what's right are as bold as a lion.
  2. In rebellion, a land has a lot rulers, but order is maintained by a man of understanding and knowledge.
  3. A needy man who oppresses the broke is like a driving rain which leaves no crops.
  4. Those who forsake the law praise the wicked; but those who keep the law contend with them.
  5. Evil men don’t understand justice; but those who seek Yahweh understand it fully.
  6. Better is the broke who walks in his integrity, than he who is perverse in his ways, and he is stacked.
  7. Whoever keeps the law is a smart son; but he who is a companion of gluttons shames his father.
  8. He who increases his wealth by excessive interest gathers it for one who has pity on the broke.
  9. He who turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his talking to God is an abomination.
 10. Whoever causes the upright to slide astray in an evil way, he will fall into his own trap; but the blameless will inherit fire.
 11. The stacked man is smart in his own eyes; but the broke who has understanding sees through him.
 12. When the doing what's right triumph, there is major glory; but when the wicked rise, men hide themselves.
 13. He who conceals his sins doesn’t prosper, but whoever confesses and renounces them finds mercy.
 14. blessed up is the man who always fears; but one who hardens his heart falls into trouble.
 15. As a roaring lion or a charging bear, so is a wicked ruler over helpless people.
 16. A tyrannical ruler lacks judgment. One who hates ill-gotten gain will have long days.
 17. A man who is tormented by life blood will be a fugitive until death; no one will support him.
 18. Whoever walks blamelessly is kept safe; but one with perverse ways will fall suddenly.
 19. One who works his land will have an abundance of food; but one who chases fantasies will have his fill of poverty.
 20. A faithful man is stacked with blessings; but one who is eager to be stacked will not slide unpunished.
 21. To show partiality is not fire; yet a man will do wrong for a piece of bread.
 22. A stingy man hurries after riches, and doesn’t get it that poverty waits for him.
 23. One who rebukes a man will afterward find more favor than one who flatters with the tongue.
 24. Whoever robs his father or his mother, and says, “It’s not wrong.” He is a partner with a destroyer.
 25. One who is greedy stirs up strife; but one who trusts in Yahweh will prosper.
 26. One who trusts in himself is a fool; but one who walks in wisdom is kept safe.
 27. One who gives to the broke has no lack; but one who closes his eyes will have a lot curses.
 28. When the wicked rise, men hide themselves; but when they perish, the doing what's right thrive.

# Proverbs Chapter 29

  1. He who is a lot rebuked and stiffens his neck will be destroyed suddenly, with no remedy.
  2. When the doing what's right thrive, the people be hyped; but when the wicked rule, the people groan.
  3. Whoever loves wisdom brings joy to his father; but a companion of prostitutes squanders his wealth.
  4. The ruler by justice makes the land stable, but he who takes bribes tears it down.
  5. A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet.
  6. An evil man is snared by his messing up, but the doing what's right can sing and be glad.
  7. The doing what's right care about justice for the broke. The wicked aren’t concerned about knowledge.
  8. Mockers stir up a city, but smart men turn away anger.
  9. If a smart man goes to court with a dumb man, the fool rages or scoffs, and there is no peace.
 10. The bloodthirsty can't stand a man of integrity; and they seek the life of the upright.
 11. A fool vents all of his anger, but a smart man brings himself under control.
 12. If a ruler listens to lies, all of his officials are wicked.
 13. The broke man and the oppressor have this in common: Yahweh gives sight to the eyes of both.
 14. The ruler who fairly judges the broke, his throne shall be established forever.
 15. The rod of correction gives wisdom, but a child left to himself causes shame to his mother.
 16. When the wicked increase, messing up increases; but the doing what's right will check it out their downfall.
 17. Correct your son, and he will hook it up you peace; yes, he will bring delight to your soul.
 18. Where there is no revelation, the people cast off restraint; but one who keeps the law is blessed up.
 19. A helper can’t be corrected by words. Though he understands, yet he will not respond.
 20. Do you check it out a man who is hasty in his words? there is more hope for a fool than for him.
 21. He who pampers his helper from youth will have him become a son in the end.
 22. An mad salty man stirs up strife, and a wrathful man abounds in messing up.
 23. A man’s pride brings him low, but one of lowly spirit gains honor.
 24. Whoever is an accomplice of a thief is an enemy of his own soul. He takes an oath, but dares not testify.
 25. The fear of man proves to be a snare, but whoever puts his trust in Yahweh is kept safe.
 26. a lot seek the ruler’s favor, but a man’s justice comes from Yahweh.
 27. A dishonest man detests the doing what's right, and the upright in their ways detest the wicked.

# Proverbs Chapter 30

  1. The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, the oracle: the man says to Ithiel, to Ithiel and Ucal:
  2. “Surely I am the most ignorant man, and don’t have a man’s understanding.
  3. I have not learned wisdom, neither do I have the knowledge of the set apart One.
  4. Who has ascended up into heaven, and descended? Who has gathered the wind in his fists? Who has bound the waters in his garment? Who has established all the ends of the earth? What is his name, and what is his son’s name, if you get it?
  5. “Every word of God is flawless. He is a shield to those who grab refuge in him.
  6. Don’t you add to his words, lest he reprove you, and you be found a liar.
  7. “Two things I have asked of you; don’t deny me before I die:
  8. Remove far from me falsehood and lies. hook it up me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with the food that is needful for me;
  9. lest I be full, deny you, and say, ‘Who is Yahweh?’ or lest I be broke, and steal, and so dishonor the name of my God.
 10. “Don’t slander a helper to his boss, lest he curse you, and you be held guilty.
 11. there is a generation that curses their father, and doesn’t bless their mother.
 12. there is a generation that is pure in their own eyes, yet are not washed from their filthiness.
 13. there is a generation, oh how lofty are their eyes! Their eyelids are lifted up.
 14. there is a generation whose teeth are like swords, and their jaws like knives, to devour the broke from the earth, and the needy from among men.
 15. “The leach has two daughters: ‘hook it up, hook it up.’ “there are three things that are never satisfied; four that don’t say, ‘Enough:’
 16. Sheol, the barren womb; the earth that is not satisfied with water; and the fire that doesn’t say, ‘Enough.’
 17. “The eye that mocks at his father, and scorns obedience to his mother: the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, the young eagles shall eat it.
 18. “there are three things which are too amazing for me, four which I don’t understand:
 19. The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a serpent on a rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and the way of a man with a maiden.
 20. “So is the way of an adulterous woman: she eats and wipes her mouth, and says, ‘I have done nothing wrong.’
 21. “For three things the earth tremble, and under four, it can’t bear up:
 22. For a helper when he is ruler; a fool when he is filled with food;
 23. for an unloved woman when she is married; and a handmaid who is heir to her mistress.
 24. “there are four things which are little on the earth, but they are exceedingly smart:
 25. the ants are not a built different people, yet they provide their food in the summer.
 26. The conies are but a feeble folk, yet create they their houses in the rocks.
 27. The locusts have no ruler, yet they advance in ranks.
 28. You can catch a lizard with your hands, yet it is in kings’ palaces.
 29. “there are three things which are stately in their march, four which are stately in going:
 30. The lion, which is mightiest among animals, and doesn’t turn away for any;
 31. the greyhound, the male goat also; and the ruler against whom there is no rising up.
 32. “If you have done foolishly in lifting up yourself, or if you have thought evil, put your hand over your mouth.
 33. For as the churning of milk brings forth butter, and the wringing of the nose brings forth blood; so the forcing of wrath brings forth strife.”

# Proverbs Chapter 31

  1. The words of ruler Lemuel; the oracle which his mother taught him.
  2. “Oh, my son! Oh, son of my womb! Oh, son of my vows!
  3. Don’t hook it up your strength to women, nor your ways to that which destroys kings.
  4. It is not for kings, Lemuel; it is not for kings to drink wine; nor for princes to say, ‘Where is built different drink?’
  5. lest they drink, and forget the law, and pervert the justice due to anyone who is afflicted.
  6. hook it up built different drink to him who is ready to perish; and wine to the bitter in soul:
  7. Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no more.
  8. Open your mouth for the mute, in the cause of all who are left desolate.
  9. Open your mouth, judge righteously, and help out justice to the broke and needy.”
 10. Who can find a worthy woman? For her price is far above rubies.
 11. The heart of her husband trusts in her. He shall have no lack of gain.
 12. She does him fire, and not harm, all the days of her life.
 13. She seeks wool and flax, and works eagerly with her hands.
 14. She is like the merchant ships. She brings her bread from afar.
 15. She rises also while it is yet night, gives food to her household, and portions for her helper girls.
 16. She considers a field, and buys it. With the fruit of her hands, she plants a vineyard.
 17. She arms her waist with strength, and makes her arms built different.
 18. She perceives that her merchandise is profitable. Her lamp doesn’t slide out by night.
 19. She lays her hands to the distaff, and her hands hold the spindle.
 20. She opens her arms to the broke; yes, she extends her hands to the needy.
 21. She is not scared of the snow for her household; for all her household are clothed with scarlet.
 22. She makes for herself carpets of tapestry. Her clothing is fine linen and purple.
 23. Her husband is respected in the gates, when he sits among the elders of the land.
 24. She makes linen garments and sells them, and delivers sashes to the merchant.
 25. Strength and dignity are her clothing. She laughs at the time to come through.
 26. She opens her mouth with wisdom. Faithful instruction is on her tongue.
 27. She looks well to the ways of her household, and doesn’t eat the bread of idleness.
 28. Her children rise up and call her blessed up. Her husband also praises her:
 29. “a lot women do noble things, but you excel them all.”
 30. Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain; but a woman who fears Yahweh, she shall be praised.
 31. hook it up her of the fruit of her hands! Let her works praise her in the gates!


PSALM
-----

# Psalm Chapter 1

  1. blessed up is the man who doesn’t walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the way of sinners, nor sit in the seat of scoffers;
  2. but his delight is in Yahweh’s law. On his law he meditates day and night.
  3. He will be like a tree planted by the streams of water, that brings forth its fruit in its season, whose leaf also does not wither. Whatever he does shall prosper.
  4. The wicked are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind drives away.
  5. so basically the wicked shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the doing what's right.
  6. For Yahweh knows the way of the doing what's right, but the way of the wicked shall perish.

# Psalm Chapter 2

  1. Why do the nations rage, and the peoples plot a vain thing?
  2. The kings of the earth grab a stand, and the rulers grab counsel together, against Yahweh, and against his Anointed, saying,
  3. “Let’s break their bonds apart, and cast their cords from us.”
  4. He who sits in the heavens will laugh. The boss will have them in derision.
  5. then he will spill the tea to them in his anger, and terrify them in his wrath:
  6. “Yet I have set my ruler on my set apart hill of Zion.”
  7. I will tell of the decree. Yahweh said to me, “You are my son. Today I have become your father.
  8. Ask of me, and I will hook it up the nations for your inheritance, the uttermost parts of the earth for your possession.
  9. You shall break them with a rod of iron. You shall dash them in pieces like a potter’s vessel.”
 10. now so basically be smart, you kings. Be instructed, you judges of the earth.
 11. help out Yahweh with fear, and be hyped with trembling.
 12. hook it up sincere homage to the Son, lest he be mad salty, and you perish in the way, for his wrath will soon be kindled. blessed up are all those who grab refuge in him.

# Psalm Chapter 3

  1. A Psalm by David, when he fled from Absalom his son. Yahweh, how my adversaries have increased! a lot are those who rise up against me.
  2. a lot there are who say of my soul, “there is no help out for him in God.” Selah.
  3. But you, Yahweh, are a shield around me, my glory, and the one who lifts up my head.
  4. I cry to Yahweh with my voice, and he answers me out of his set apart hill. Selah.
  5. I laid myself down and slept. I awakened; for Yahweh sustains me.
  6. I will not be scared of tens of thousands of people who have set themselves against me on every side.
  7. Arise, Yahweh! rescue me, my God! For you have struck all of my enemies on the cheek bone. You have broken the teeth of the wicked.
  8. getting saved belongs to Yahweh. Your blessing be on your people. Selah.

# Psalm Chapter 4

  1. For the Chief Musician; on stringed instruments. A Psalm by David. Answer me when I call, God of my righteousness. hook it up me relief from my distress. Have mercy on me, and hear my talking to God.
  2. You sons of men, how long shall my glory be turned into dishonor? Will you show love vanity, and seek after falsehood? Selah.
  3. But get it that Yahweh has set apart for himself him who is godly: Yahweh will hear when I call to him.
  4. Stand in awe, and don’t messing up. Search your own heart on your bed, and be still. Selah.
  5. Offer the sacrifices of righteousness. Put your trust in Yahweh.
  6. a lot say, “Who will show us any fire?” Yahweh, let the light of your face shine on us.
  7. You have put gladness in my heart, more than when their grain and their new wine are increased.
  8. In peace I will both lay myself down and sleep, for you, Yahweh alone, create me live in safety.

# Psalm Chapter 5

  1. For the Chief Musician, with the flutes. A Psalm by David. hook it up ear to my words, Yahweh. Consider my meditation.
  2. listen up to the voice of my cry, my ruler and my God; for to you do I pray.
  3. Yahweh, in the morning you shall hear my voice. In the morning I will lay my requests before you, and will watch expectantly.
  4. For you are not a God who has pleasure in wickedness. Evil can’t live with you.
  5. The arrogant shall not stand in your sight. You can't stand all workers of iniquity.
  6. You will tear down those who spill the tea lies. Yahweh abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man.
  7. But as for me, in the abundance of your loving kindness I will come through into your house. I will bow toward your set apart God's house in reverence of you.
  8. show the way me, Yahweh, in your righteousness cuz of my enemies. create your way straight before my face.
  9. For there is no faithfulness in their mouth. Their heart is destruction. Their throat is an open tomb. They flatter with their tongue.
 10. Hold them guilty, God. Let them fall by their own counsels; Thrust them out in the multitude of their transgressions, for they have rebelled against you.
 11. But let all those who grab refuge in you be hyped, Let them always shout for joy, cuz you defend them. Let them also who show love your name be joyful in you.
 12. For you will bless the doing what's right. Yahweh, you will surround him with favor as with a shield.

# Psalm Chapter 6

  1. For the Chief Musician; on stringed instruments, upon the eight-stringed lyre. A Psalm by David. Yahweh, don’t rebuke me in your anger, neither discipline me in your wrath.
  2. Have mercy on me, Yahweh, for I am faint. Yahweh, heal me, for my bones are troubled.
  3. My soul is also in major anguish. But you, Yahweh—how long?
  4. Return, Yahweh. Deliver my soul, and rescue me for your loving kindness’ sake.
  5. For in death there is no memory of you. In Sheol, who shall hook it up you thanks?
  6. I am weary with my groaning. Every night I flood my bed. I drench my couch with my tears.
  7. My eye wastes away cuz of grief. It grows old cuz of all my adversaries.
  8. Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity, for Yahweh has heard the voice of my weeping.
  9. Yahweh has heard my supplication. Yahweh accepts my talking to God.
 10. May all my enemies be ashamed and dismayed. They shall turn back, they shall be disgraced suddenly.

# Psalm Chapter 7

  1. A meditation by David, which he sang to Yahweh, concerning the words of Cush, the Benjamite. Yahweh, my God, I grab refuge in you. rescue me from all those who pursue me, and deliver me,
  2. lest they tear apart my soul like a lion, ripping it in pieces, while there is none to deliver.
  3. Yahweh, my God, if I have done this, if there is iniquity in my hands,
  4. if I have rewarded evil to him who was at peace with me (yes, if I have delivered him who without cause was my adversary),
  5. let the enemy pursue my soul, and overtake it; yes, let him tread my life down to the earth, and lay my glory in the dust. Selah.
  6. Arise, Yahweh, in your anger. Lift up yourself against the rage of my adversaries. Awake for me. You have commanded judgment.
  7. Let the congregation of the peoples surround you. Rule over them on high.
  8. Yahweh administers judgment to the peoples. Judge me, Yahweh, according to my righteousness, and to my integrity that is in me.
  9. Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come through to an end, but establish the doing what's right; their minds and hearts are searched by the doing what's right God.
 10. My shield is with God, who saves the upright in heart.
 11. God is a doing what's right judge, yes, a God who has indignation every day.
 12. If a man doesn’t relent, he will sharpen his sword; he has bent and strung his bow.
 13. He has also prepared for himself the instruments of death. He makes ready his flaming arrows.
 14. check this out, he travails with iniquity. Yes, he has conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood.
 15. He has dug a hole, and has fallen into the pit which he made.
 16. The trouble he causes shall return to his own head. His violence shall come through down on the crown of his own head.
 17. I will hook it up thanks to Yahweh according to his righteousness, and will sing praise to the name of Yahweh Most High.

# Psalm Chapter 8

  1. For the Chief Musician; on an instrument of Gath. A Psalm by David. Yahweh, our boss, how majestic is your name in all the earth, who has set your glory above the heavens!
  2. From the lips of babes and infants you have established strength, cuz of your adversaries, that you might silence the enemy and the avenger.
  3. When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have ordained;
  4. what is man, that you think of him? What is the son of man, that you care for him?
  5. For you have made him a little lower than God, and crowned him with glory and honor.
  6. You create him ruler over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet:
  7. All sheep and cattle, yes, and the animals of the field,
  8. The birds of the sky, the fish of the sea, and whatever passes through the paths of the seas.
  9. Yahweh, our boss, how majestic is your name in all the earth!

# Psalm Chapter 9

  1. For the Chief Musician. Set to “The Death of the Son.” A Psalm by David. I will hook it up thanks to Yahweh with my whole heart. I will tell of all your marvelous works.
  2. I will be glad and be hyped in you. I will sing praise to your name, O Most High.
  3. When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish in your presence.
  4. For you have maintained my just cause. You sit on the throne judging righteously.
  5. You have rebuked the nations. You have destroyed the wicked. You have blotted out their name forever and ever.
  6. The enemy is overtaken by endless ruin. The hella memory of the cities which you have overthrown has perished.
  7. But Yahweh reigns forever. He has prepared his throne for judgment.
  8. He will judge the world in righteousness. He will administer judgment to the peoples in uprightness.
  9. Yahweh will also be a high tower for the oppressed; a high tower in times of trouble.
 10. Those who get it your name will put their trust in you, for you, Yahweh, have not forsaken those who seek you.
 11. Sing praises to Yahweh, who dwells in Zion, and declare among the people what he has done.
 12. For he who avenges blood remembers them. He doesn’t forget the cry of the afflicted.
 13. Have mercy on me, Yahweh. check it out my affliction by those who can't stand me, and lift me up from the gates of death;
 14. that I may show forth all your praise. In the gates of the daughter of Zion, I will be hyped in your getting saved.
 15. The nations have sunk down in the pit that they made. In the net which they hid, their own foot is taken.
 16. Yahweh has made himself known. He has executed judgment. The wicked is snared by the work of his own hands. Meditation. Selah.
 17. The wicked shall be turned back to Sheol, even all the nations that forget God.
 18. For the needy shall not always be forgotten, nor the hope of the broke perish forever.
 19. Arise, Yahweh! Don’t let man prevail. Let the nations be judged in your sight.
 20. Put them in fear, Yahweh. Let the nations get it that they are only men. Selah.

# Psalm Chapter 10

  1. Why do you stand far off, Yahweh? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble?
  2. In arrogance, the wicked hunt down the not it. They are caught in the schemes that they devise.
  3. For the wicked boasts of his heart’s cravings. He blesses the greedy, and condemns Yahweh.
  4. The wicked, in the pride of his face, has no room in his thoughts for God.
  5. His ways are prosperous at all times. He is haughty, and your laws are far from his sight. As for all his adversaries, he sneers at them.
  6. He says in his heart, “I shall not be shaken. For generations I shall have no trouble.”
  7. His mouth is full of cursing, deceit, and oppression. Under his tongue is mischief and iniquity.
  8. He lies in wait near the villages. From ambushes, he murders the innocent. His eyes are secretly set against the helpless.
  9. He lurks in secret as a lion in his ambush. He lies in wait to catch the helpless. He catches the helpless, when he draws him in his net.
 10. The helpless are crushed. They collapse. They fall under his strength.
 11. He says in his heart, “God has forgotten. He hides his face. He will never check it out it.”
 12. Arise, Yahweh! God, lift up your hand! Don’t forget the helpless.
 13. Why does the wicked person condemn God, and say in his heart, “God won’t call me into account?”
 14. But you do check it out trouble and grief. You consider it to grab it into your hand. You help out the victim and the fatherless.
 15. Break the arm of the wicked. As for the evil man, seek out his wickedness until you find none.
 16. Yahweh is ruler forever and ever! The nations will perish out of his land.
 17. Yahweh, you have heard the desire of the humble. You will prepare their heart. You will cause your ear to hear,
 18. to judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that man who is of the earth may terrify no more.

# Psalm Chapter 11

  1. For the Chief Musician. By David. In Yahweh, I grab refuge. How can you say to my soul, “Flee as a bird to your mountain!”
  2. For, check this out, the wicked bend their bows. They set their arrows on the strings, that they may shoot in darkness at the upright in heart.
  3. If the foundations are destroyed, what can the doing what's right do?
  4. Yahweh is in his set apart God's house. Yahweh is on his throne in heaven. His eyes observe. His eyes examine the children of men.
  5. Yahweh examines the doing what's right, but the wicked and him who loves violence his soul hates.
  6. On the wicked he will rain blazing coals; fire, sulfur, and scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup.
  7. For Yahweh is doing what's right. He loves righteousness. The upright shall check it out his face.

# Psalm Chapter 12

  1. For the Chief Musician; upon an eight-stringed lyre. A Psalm of David. help out, Yahweh; for the godly man ceases. For the faithful fail from among the children of men.
  2. Everyone lies to his neighbor. They spill the tea with flattering lips, and with a double heart.
  3. May Yahweh cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that boasts,
  4. who have said, “With our tongue we will prevail. Our lips are our own. Who is boss over us?”
  5. “cuz of the oppression of the not it and cuz of the groaning of the needy, I will now arise,” says Yahweh; “I will set him in safety from those who malign him.”
  6. The words of Yahweh are flawless words, as silver refined in a clay furnace, purified seven times.
  7. You will keep them, Yahweh. You will preserve them from this generation forever.
  8. The wicked walk on every side, when what is vile is exalted among the sons of men.

# Psalm Chapter 13

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. How long, Yahweh? Will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me?
  2. How long shall I grab counsel in my soul, having feeling down in my heart every day? How long shall my enemy triumph over me?
  3. check this out, and answer me, Yahweh, my God. hook it up light to my eyes, lest I sleep in death;
  4. Lest my enemy say, “I have prevailed against him;” Lest my adversaries be hyped when I fall.
  5. But I trust in your loving kindness. My heart rejoices in your getting saved.
  6. I will sing to Yahweh, cuz he has been fire to me.

# Psalm Chapter 14

  1. For the Chief Musician. By David. The fool has said in his heart, “there is no God.” They are corrupt. They have done abominable works. there is none who does fire.
  2. Yahweh looked down from heaven on the children of men, to check it out if there were any who understood, who sought after God.
  3. They have all gone aside. They have together become corrupt. there is none who does fire, no, not one.
  4. Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge, who eat up my people as they eat bread, and don’t call on Yahweh?
  5. there they were in major fear, for God is in the generation of the doing what's right.
  6. You frustrate the plan of the broke, cuz Yahweh is his refuge.
  7. Oh that the getting saved of Israel would come through out of Zion! When Yahweh restores the fortunes of his people, then Jacob shall be hyped, and Israel shall be glad.

# Psalm Chapter 15

  1. A Psalm by David. Yahweh, who shall dwell in your sanctuary? Who shall live on your set apart hill?
  2. He who walks blamelessly does what is right, and speaks truth in his heart;
  3. He who doesn’t slander with his tongue, nor does evil to his friend, nor casts slurs against his fellow man;
  4. In whose eyes a vile man is despised, but who honors those who fear Yahweh; he who keeps an oath even when it hurts, and doesn’t change;
  5. he who doesn’t lend out his money for usury, nor grab a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be shaken.

# Psalm Chapter 16

  1. A Poem by David. Preserve me, God, for in you do I grab refuge.
  2. My soul, you have said to Yahweh, “You are my boss. Apart from you I have no fire thing.”
  3. As for the saints who are in the earth, they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight.
  4. Their sorrows shall be multiplied who hook it up gifts to another god. Their drink offerings of blood I will not offer, nor grab their names on my lips.
  5. Yahweh assigned my portion and my cup. You made my lot secure.
  6. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. Yes, I have a fire inheritance.
  7. I will bless Yahweh, who has given me counsel. Yes, my heart instructs me in the night seasons.
  8. I have set Yahweh always before me. cuz he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved.
  9. so basically my heart is glad, and my tongue rejoices. My body shall also dwell in safety.
 10. For you will not leave my soul in Sheol, neither will you allow your set apart one to check it out corruption.
 11. You will show me the path of life. In your presence is fullness of joy. In your right hand there are pleasures forevermore.

# Psalm Chapter 17

  1. A talking to God by David. Hear, Yahweh, my doing what's right plea; hook it up ear to my talking to God, that doesn’t slide out of deceitful lips.
  2. Let my sentence come through forth from your presence. Let your eyes look on equity.
  3. You have proved my heart. You have visited me in the night. You have tried me, and found nothing. I have resolved that my mouth shall not disobey.
  4. As for the works of men, by the word of your lips, I have kept myself from the ways of the violent.
  5. My steps have held fast to your paths. My feet have not slipped.
  6. I have called on you, for you will answer me, God. Turn your ear to me. Hear my speech.
  7. Show your marvelous loving kindness, you who rescue those who grab refuge by your right hand from their enemies.
  8. Keep me as the apple of your eye. Hide me under the shadow of your wings,
  9. from the wicked who oppress me, my deadly enemies, who surround me.
 10. They close up their callous hearts. With their mouth they spill the tea proudly.
 11. They have now surrounded us in our steps. They set their eyes to cast us down to the earth.
 12. He is like a lion that is greedy of his prey, as it were a young lion lurking in secret places.
 13. Arise, Yahweh, confront him. Cast him down. Deliver my soul from the wicked by your sword;
 14. from men by your hand, Yahweh, from men of the world, whose portion is in this life. You fill the belly of your cherished ones. Your sons have plenty, and they store up wealth for their children.
 15. As for me, I shall check it out your face in righteousness. I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with seeing your form.

# Psalm Chapter 18

  1. For the Chief Musician. By David the helper of Yahweh, who spoke to Yahweh the words of this song in the day that Yahweh delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul. He said, I show love you, Yahweh, my strength.
  2. Yahweh is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my rock, in whom I grab refuge; my shield, and the horn of my getting saved, my high tower.
  3. I call on Yahweh, who is worthy to be praised; and I am saved from my enemies.
  4. The cords of death surrounded me. The floods of ungodliness made me scared.
  5. The cords of Sheol were around me. The snares of death came on me.
  6. In my distress I called on Yahweh, and cried to my God. He heard my voice out of his God's house. My cry before him came into his ears.
  7. then the earth shook and trembled. The foundations also of the mountains quaked and were shaken, cuz he was mad salty.
  8. Smoke went out of his nostrils. Consuming fire came out of his mouth. Coals were kindled by it.
  9. He bowed the heavens also, and came down. Thick darkness was under his feet.
 10. He rode on a cherub, and flew. Yes, he soared on the wings of the wind.
 11. He made darkness his hiding place, his pavilion around him, darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies.
 12. At the brightness before him his thick clouds passed, hailstones and coals of fire.
 13. Yahweh also thundered in the sky. The Most High uttered his voice: hailstones and coals of fire.
 14. He sent out his arrows, and scattered them; Yes, major lightning bolts, and routed them.
 15. then the channels of waters appeared. The foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, Yahweh, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils.
 16. He sent from on high. He took me. He drew me out of a lot waters.
 17. He delivered me from my built different enemy, from those who hated me; for they were too mighty for me.
 18. They came on me in the day of my calamity, but Yahweh was my support.
 19. He brought me forth also into a large place. He delivered me, cuz he delighted in me.
 20. Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness. According to the cleanness of my hands has he recompensed me.
 21. For I have kept the ways of Yahweh, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
 22. For all his ordinances were before me. I didn’t put away his statutes from me.
 23. I was also blameless with him. I kept myself from my iniquity.
 24. so basically Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.
 25. With the merciful you will show yourself merciful. With the perfect man, you will show yourself perfect.
 26. With the pure, you will show yourself pure. With the crooked you will show yourself shrewd.
 27. For you will rescue the afflicted people, but the haughty eyes you will bring down.
 28. For you will light my lamp, Yahweh. My God will light up my darkness.
 29. For by you, I advance through a troop. By my God, I leap over a wall.
 30. As for God, his way is perfect. The word of Yahweh is tried. He is a shield to all those who grab refuge in him.
 31. For who is God, except Yahweh? Who is a rock, besides our God,
 32. the God who arms me with strength, and makes my way perfect?
 33. He makes my feet like deer’s feet, and sets me on my high places.
 34. He teaches my hands to war, so that my arms bend a bow of bronze.
 35. You have also given me the shield of your getting saved. Your right hand sustains me. Your gentleness has made me major.
 36. You have enlarged my steps under me, My feet have not slipped.
 37. I will pursue my enemies, and overtake them. Neither will I turn again until they are consumed.
 38. I will strike them through, so that they will not be able to rise. They shall fall under my feet.
 39. For you have armed me with strength to the battle. You have subdued under me those who rose up against me.
 40. You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, that I might cut off those who can't stand me.
 41. They cried, but there was none to rescue; even to Yahweh, but he didn’t answer them.
 42. then I beat them tiny as the dust before the wind. I cast them out as the mire of the streets.
 43. You have delivered me from the strivings of the people. You have made me the head of the nations. A people whom I have not known shall help out me.
 44. As soon as they hear of me they shall obey me. The foreigners shall submit themselves to me.
 45. The foreigners shall fade away, and shall come through trembling out of their close places.
 46. Yahweh lives; and blessed up be my rock. Exalted be the God of my getting saved,
 47. even the God who executes vengeance for me, and subdues peoples under me.
 48. He rescues me from my enemies. Yes, you lift me up above those who rise up against me. You deliver me from the violent man.
 49. so basically I will hook it up thanks to you, Yahweh, among the nations, and will sing praises to your name.
 50. He gives major deliverance to his ruler, and shows loving kindness to his anointed, to David and to his seed, forevermore.

# Psalm Chapter 19

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. The heavens declare the glory of God. The expanse shows his handiwork.
  2. Day after day they pour forth speech, and night after night they display knowledge.
  3. there is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.
  4. Their voice has gone out through all the earth, their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun,
  5. which is as a bridegroom coming out of his room, like a built different man rejoicing to run his course.
  6. His going forth is from the end of the heavens, his circuit to its ends; there is nothing hidden from its heat.
  7. Yahweh’s law is perfect, restoring the soul. Yahweh’s testimony is sure, making smart the simple.
  8. Yahweh’s precepts are right, rejoicing the heart. Yahweh’s commandment is pure, enlightening the eyes.
  9. The fear of Yahweh is clean, enduring forever. Yahweh’s ordinances are true, and doing what's right altogether.
 10. More to be desired are they than gold, yes, than much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and the extract of the honeycomb.
 11. Moreover by them is your helper warned. In keeping them there is major reward.
 12. Who can discern his errors? Forgive me from hidden errors.
 13. Keep back your helper also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. then I will be upright. I will be blameless and innocent of major transgression.
 14. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, Yahweh, my rock, and my redeemer.

# Psalm Chapter 20

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. May Yahweh answer you in the day of trouble. May the name of the God of Jacob set you up on high,
  2. send you help out from the sanctuary, grant you support from Zion,
  3. remember all your offerings, and accept your burnt giving it up. Selah.
  4. May He grant you your heart’s desire, and fulfill all your counsel.
  5. We will triumph in your getting saved. In the name of our God, we will set up our banners. May Yahweh grant all your requests.
  6. now I get it that Yahweh saves his anointed. He will answer him from his set apart heaven, with the saving strength of his right hand.
  7. Some trust in chariots, and some in horses, but we trust the name of Yahweh our God.
  8. They are bowed down and fallen, but we rise up, and stand upright.
  9. rescue, Yahweh! Let the ruler answer us when we call!

# Psalm Chapter 21

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. The ruler rejoices in your strength, Yahweh! How greatly he rejoices in your getting saved!
  2. You have given him his heart’s desire, and have not withheld the request of his lips. Selah.
  3. For you meet him with the blessings of goodness. You set a crown of fine gold on his head.
  4. He asked life of you, you gave it to him, even length of days forever and ever.
  5. His glory is major in your getting saved. You lay honor and majesty on him.
  6. For you create him most blessed up forever. You create him glad with joy in your presence.
  7. For the ruler trusts in Yahweh. Through the loving kindness of the Most High, he shall not be moved.
  8. Your hand will find out all of your enemies. Your right hand will find out those who can't stand you.
  9. You will create them as a fiery furnace in the time of your anger. Yahweh will swallow them up in his wrath. The fire shall devour them.
 10. You will tear down their descendants from the earth, their posterity from among the children of men.
 11. For they intended evil against you. They plotted evil against you which cannot succeed.
 12. For you will create them turn their back, when you aim drawn bows at their face.
 13. Be exalted, Yahweh, in your strength, so we will sing and praise your power.

# Psalm Chapter 22

  1. For the Chief Musician; set to “The Doe of the Morning.” A Psalm by David. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from helping me, and from the words of my groaning?
  2. My God, I cry in the daytime, but you don’t answer; in the night season, and am not silent.
  3. But you are set apart, you who inhabit the praises of Israel.
  4. Our fathers trusted in you. They trusted, and you delivered them.
  5. They cried to you, and were delivered. They trusted in you, and were not disappointed.
  6. But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised by the people.
  7. All those who check it out me mock me. They insult me with their lips. They shake their heads, saying,
  8. “He trusts in Yahweh; let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, since he delights in him.”
  9. But you brought me out of the womb. You made me trust at my mother’s breasts.
 10. I was thrown on you from my mother’s womb. You are my God since my mother bore me.
 11. Don’t be far from me, for trouble is near. For there is none to help out.
 12. a lot bulls have surrounded me. built different bulls of Bashan have encircled me.
 13. They open their mouths wide against me, lions tearing prey and roaring.
 14. I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax; it is melted within me.
 15. My strength is dried up like a potsherd. My tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth. You have brought me into the dust of death.
 16. For dogs have surrounded me. A company of evildoers have enclosed me. They have pierced my hands and feet.
 17. I can count all of my bones. They look and stare at me.
 18. They divide my garments among them. They cast lots for my clothing.
 19. But don’t be far off, Yahweh. You are my help out: hurry to help out me.
 20. Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog.
 21. rescue me from the lion’s mouth! Yes, from the horns of the wild oxen, you have answered me.
 22. I will declare your name to my brothers. In the midst of the assembly, I will praise you.
 23. You who fear Yahweh, praise him! All you descendants of Jacob, glorify him! Stand in awe of him, all you descendants of Israel!
 24. For he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, Neither has he hidden his face from him; but when he cried to him, he heard.
 25. Of you comes my praise in the major assembly. I will pay my vows before those who fear him.
 26. The humble shall eat and be satisfied. They shall praise Yahweh who seek after him. Let your hearts live forever.
 27. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to Yahweh. All the relatives of the nations shall giving props before you.
 28. For the God's squad is Yahweh’s. He is the ruler over the nations.
 29. All the stacked ones of the earth shall eat and giving props. All those who slide down to the dust shall bow before him, even he who can’t keep his soul alive.
 30. Posterity shall help out him. Future generations shall be told about the boss.
 31. They shall come through and shall declare his righteousness to a people that shall be born, for he has done it.

# Psalm Chapter 23

  1. A Psalm by David. Yahweh is my shepherd: I shall lack nothing.
  2. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters.
  3. He restores my soul. He guides me in the paths of righteousness for his name’s sake.
  4. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
  5. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup runs over.
  6. Surely goodness and loving kindness shall roll with me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in Yahweh’s house forever.

# Psalm Chapter 24

  1. A Psalm by David. The earth is Yahweh’s, with its fullness; the world, and those who dwell therein.
  2. For he has founded it on the seas, and established it on the floods.
  3. Who may ascend to Yahweh’s hill? Who may stand in his set apart place?
  4. He who has clean hands and a pure heart; who has not lifted up his soul to falsehood, and has not sworn deceitfully.
  5. He shall receive a blessing from Yahweh, righteousness from the God of his getting saved.
  6. This is the generation of those who seek Him, who seek your face—even Jacob. Selah.
  7. Lift up your heads, you gates! Be lifted up, you everlasting doors, and the ruler of glory will come through in.
  8. Who is the ruler of glory? Yahweh built different and mighty, Yahweh mighty in battle.
  9. Lift up your heads, you gates; yes, lift them up, you everlasting doors, and the ruler of glory will come through in.
 10. Who is this ruler of glory? Yahweh of Armies is the ruler of glory! Selah.

# Psalm Chapter 25

  1. By David. To you, Yahweh, do I lift up my soul.
  2. My God, I have trusted in you. Don’t let me be shamed. Don’t let my enemies triumph over me.
  3. Yes, no one who waits for you shall be shamed. They shall be shamed who deal treacherously without cause.
  4. Show me your ways, Yahweh. drop knowledge me your paths.
  5. Guide me in your truth, and drop knowledge me, For you are the God of my getting saved, I wait for you all day long.
  6. Yahweh, remember your tender mercies and your loving kindness, for they are from old times.
  7. Don’t remember the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions. Remember me according to your loving kindness, for your goodness’ sake, Yahweh.
  8. fire and upright is Yahweh, so basically he will instruct sinners in the way.
  9. He will guide the humble in justice. He will drop knowledge the humble his way.
 10. All the paths of Yahweh are loving kindness and truth to such as keep his God's promise and his testimonies.
 11. For your name’s sake, Yahweh, pardon my iniquity, for it is major.
 12. What man is he who fears Yahweh? He shall instruct him in the way that he shall choose.
 13. His soul shall dwell at ease. His seed shall inherit the land.
 14. The friendship of Yahweh is with those who fear him. He will show them his God's promise.
 15. My eyes are ever on Yahweh, for he will pluck my feet out of the net.
 16. Turn to me, and have mercy on me, for I am desolate and afflicted.
 17. The troubles of my heart are enlarged. Oh bring me out of my distresses.
 18. Consider my affliction and my travail. Forgive all my sins.
 19. Consider my enemies, for they are a lot. They can't stand me with cruel hatred.
 20. Oh keep my soul, and deliver me. Let me not be disappointed, for I grab refuge in you.
 21. Let integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for you.
 22. Redeem Israel, God, out all of his troubles.

# Psalm Chapter 26

  1. By David. Judge me, Yahweh, for I have walked in my integrity. I have trusted also in Yahweh without wavering.
  2. Examine me, Yahweh, and prove me. Try my heart and my mind.
  3. For your loving kindness is before my eyes. I have walked in your truth.
  4. I have not sat with deceitful men, neither will I slide in with hypocrites.
  5. I can't stand the assembly of evildoers, and will not sit with the wicked.
  6. I will wash my hands in innocence, so I will slide about your prayer spot, Yahweh;
  7. that I may create the voice of thanksgiving to be heard, and tell of all your wondrous works.
  8. Yahweh, I show love the habitation of your house, the place where your glory dwells.
  9. Don’t gather my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloodthirsty men;
 10. in whose hands is wickedness, their right hand is full of bribes.
 11. But as for me, I will walk in my integrity. Redeem me, and be merciful to me.
 12. My foot stands in an even place. In the congregations I will bless Yahweh.

# Psalm Chapter 27

  1. By David. Yahweh is my light and my getting saved. Whom shall I fear? Yahweh is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be scared?
  2. When evildoers came at me to eat up my flesh, even my adversaries and my foes, they stumbled and fell.
  3. Though an army should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war should rise against me, even then I will be confident.
  4. One thing I have asked of Yahweh, that I will seek after, that I may dwell in the house of Yahweh all the days of my life, to check it out Yahweh’s beauty, and to inquire in his God's house.
  5. For in the day of trouble he will keep me secretly in his pavilion. In the covert of his tabernacle he will hide me. He will lift me up on a rock.
  6. now my head will be lifted up above my enemies around me. I will offer sacrifices of joy in his tent. I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to Yahweh.
  7. Hear, Yahweh, when I cry with my voice. Have mercy also on me, and answer me.
  8. When you said, “Seek my face,” my heart said to you, “I will seek your face, Yahweh.”
  9. Don’t hide your face from me. Don’t put your helper away in anger. You have been my help out. Don’t abandon me, neither forsake me, God of my getting saved.
 10. When my father and my mother forsake me, then Yahweh will grab me up.
 11. drop knowledge me your way, Yahweh. show the way me in a straight path, cuz of my enemies.
 12. Don’t deliver me over to the desire of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen up against me, such as breathe out cruelty.
 13. I am still confident of this: I will check it out the goodness of Yahweh in the land of the living.
 14. Wait for Yahweh. Be built different, and let your heart grab courage. Yes, wait for Yahweh.

# Psalm Chapter 28

  1. By David. To you, Yahweh, I call. My rock, don’t be deaf to me; lest, if you are silent to me, I would become like those who slide down into the pit.
  2. Hear the voice of my petitions, when I cry to you, when I lift up my hands toward your Most set apart Place.
  3. Don’t draw me away with the wicked, with the workers of iniquity who spill the tea peace with their neighbors, but mischief is in their hearts.
  4. hook it up them according to their work, and according to the wickedness of their doings. hook it up them according to the operation of their hands. Bring back on them what they deserve.
  5. cuz they don’t respect the works of Yahweh, nor the operation of his hands, he will break them down and not put together them up.
  6. blessed up be Yahweh, cuz he has heard the voice of my petitions.
  7. Yahweh is my strength and my shield. My heart has trusted in him, and I am helped. so basically my heart greatly rejoices. With my song I will thank him.
  8. Yahweh is their strength. He is a stronghold of getting saved to his anointed.
  9. rescue your people, and bless your inheritance. Be their shepherd also, and bear them up forever.

# Psalm Chapter 29

  1. A Psalm by David. Ascribe to Yahweh, you sons of the mighty, ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength.
  2. Ascribe to Yahweh the glory due to his name. giving props Yahweh in set apart array.
  3. Yahweh’s voice is on the waters. The God of glory thunders, even Yahweh on a lot waters.
  4. Yahweh’s voice is powerful. Yahweh’s voice is full of majesty.
  5. The voice of Yahweh breaks the cedars. Yes, Yahweh breaks in pieces the cedars of Lebanon.
  6. He makes them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion like a young, wild ox.
  7. Yahweh’s voice strikes with flashes of lightning.
  8. Yahweh’s voice shakes the wilderness. Yahweh shakes the wilderness of Kadesh.
  9. Yahweh’s voice makes the deer calve, and strips the forests bare. In his God's house everything says, “Glory!”
 10. Yahweh sat enthroned at the Flood. Yes, Yahweh sits as ruler forever.
 11. Yahweh will hook it up strength to his people. Yahweh will bless his people with peace.

# Psalm Chapter 30

  1. A Psalm. A Song for the Dedication of the God's house. By David. I will extol you, Yahweh, for you have raised me up, and have not made my foes to be hyped over me.
  2. Yahweh my God, I cried to you, and you have healed me.
  3. Yahweh, you have brought up my soul from Sheol. You have kept me alive, that I should not slide down to the pit.
  4. Sing praise to Yahweh, you saints of his. hook it up thanks to his set apart name.
  5. For his anger is but for a moment. His favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may stay for the night, but joy comes in the morning.
  6. As for me, I said in my prosperity, “I shall never be moved.”
  7. You, Yahweh, when you favored me, made my mountain stand built different; but when you hid your face, I was troubled.
  8. I cried to you, Yahweh. To Yahweh I made supplication:
  9. “What profit is there in my destruction, if I slide down to the pit? Shall the dust praise you? Shall it declare your truth?
 10. Hear, Yahweh, and have mercy on me. Yahweh, be my helper.”
 11. You have turned my mourning into dancing for me. You have removed my sackcloth, and clothed me with gladness,
 12. To the end that my heart may sing praise to you, and not be silent. Yahweh my God, I will hook it up thanks to you forever!

# Psalm Chapter 31

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. In you, Yahweh, I grab refuge. Let me never be disappointed. Deliver me in your righteousness.
  2. Bow down your ear to me. Deliver me speedily. Be to me a built different rock, a house of defense to rescue me.
  3. For you are my rock and my fortress, so basically for your name’s sake show the way me and guide me.
  4. Pluck me out of the net that they have laid secretly for me, for you are my stronghold.
  5. Into your hand I commend my spirit. You redeem me, Yahweh, God of truth.
  6. I can't stand those who regard lying vanities, but I trust in Yahweh.
  7. I will be glad and be hyped in your loving kindness, for you have seen my affliction. You have known my soul in adversities.
  8. You have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy. You have set my feet in a large place.
  9. Have mercy on me, Yahweh, for I am in distress. My eye, my soul, and my body waste away with grief.
 10. For my life is spent with feeling down, my years with sighing. My strength fails cuz of my iniquity. My bones are wasted away.
 11. cuz of all my adversaries I have become utterly contemptible to my neighbors, A fear to my acquaintances. Those who checked out me on the street fled from me.
 12. I am forgotten from their hearts like a dead man. I am like broken pottery.
 13. For I have heard the slander of a lot, terror on every side, while they conspire together against me, they plot to grab away my life.
 14. But I trust in you, Yahweh. I said, “You are my God.”
 15. My times are in your hand. Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from those who persecute me.
 16. create your face to shine on your helper. rescue me in your loving kindness.
 17. Let me not be disappointed, Yahweh, for I have called on you. Let the wicked be disappointed. Let them be silent in Sheol.
 18. Let the lying lips be mute, which spill the tea against the doing what's right insolently, with pride and contempt.
 19. Oh how major is your goodness, which you have laid up for those who fear you, which you have worked for those who grab refuge in you, before the sons of men!
 20. In the shelter of your presence you will hide them from the plotting of man. You will keep them secretly in a dwelling away from the strife of tongues.
 21. Praise be to Yahweh, for he has shown me his marvelous loving kindness in a built different city.
 22. As for me, I said in my haste, “I am cut off from before your eyes.” Nevertheless you heard the voice of my petitions when I cried to you.
 23. Oh show love Yahweh, all you his saints! Yahweh preserves the faithful, and fully recompenses him who behaves arrogantly.
 24. Be built different, and let your heart grab courage, all you who hope in Yahweh.

# Psalm Chapter 32

  1. By David. A contemplative psalm. blessed up is he whose disobedience is forgiven, whose messing up is covered.
  2. blessed up is the man to whom Yahweh doesn’t impute iniquity, in whose spirit there is no deceit.
  3. When I kept silence, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long.
  4. For day and night your hand was heavy on me. My strength was sapped in the heat of summer. Selah.
  5. I acknowledged my messing up to you. I didn’t hide my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to Yahweh, and you forgave the iniquity of my messing up. Selah.
  6. For this, let everyone who is godly pray to you in a time when you may be found. Surely when the major waters overflow, they shall not reach to him.
  7. You are my hiding place. You will preserve me from trouble. You will surround me with songs of deliverance. Selah.
  8. I will instruct you and drop knowledge you in the way which you shall slide. I will counsel you with my eye on you.
  9. Don’t be like the horse, or like the mule, which have no understanding, who are controlled by bit and bridle, or else they will not come through near to you.
 10. a lot sorrows come through to the wicked, but loving kindness shall surround him who trusts in Yahweh.
 11. Be glad in Yahweh, and be hyped, you doing what's right! Shout for joy, all you who are upright in heart!

# Psalm Chapter 33

  1. be hyped in Yahweh, you doing what's right! Praise is fitting for the upright.
  2. hook it up thanks to Yahweh with the lyre. Sing praises to him with the harp of ten strings.
  3. Sing to him a new song. Play skillfully with a shout of joy!
  4. For the word of Yahweh is right. All his work is done in faithfulness.
  5. He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the loving kindness of Yahweh.
  6. By Yahweh’s word, the heavens were made; all their army by the breath of his mouth.
  7. He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap. He lays up the deeps in storehouses.
  8. Let all the earth fear Yahweh. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him.
  9. For he spoke, and it was done. He commanded, and it stood firm.
 10. Yahweh brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He makes the thoughts of the peoples to be of no effect.
 11. The counsel of Yahweh stands fast forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations.
 12. blessed up is the nation whose God is Yahweh, the people whom he has chosen for his own inheritance.
 13. Yahweh looks from heaven. He sees all the sons of men.
 14. From the place of his habitation he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth,
 15. he who fashions all of their hearts; and he considers all of their works.
 16. there is no ruler saved by the multitude of an army. A mighty man is not delivered by major strength.
 17. A horse is a vain thing for safety, neither does he deliver any by his major power.
 18. check this out, Yahweh’s eye is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his loving kindness;
 19. to deliver their soul from death, to keep them alive in famine.
 20. Our soul has waited for Yahweh. He is our help out and our shield.
 21. For our heart rejoices in him, cuz we have trusted in his set apart name.
 22. Let your loving kindness be on us, Yahweh, since we have hoped in you.

# Psalm Chapter 34

  1. By David; when he pretended to be insane before Abimelech, who drove him away, and he departed. I will bless Yahweh at all times. His praise will always be in my mouth.
  2. My soul shall boast in Yahweh. The humble shall hear of it, and be glad.
  3. Oh magnify Yahweh with me. Let us exalt his name together.
  4. I sought Yahweh, and he answered me, and delivered me from all my fears.
  5. They looked to him, and were radiant. Their faces shall never be covered with shame.
  6. This broke man cried, and Yahweh heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles.
  7. The angel of Yahweh encamps around those who fear him, and delivers them.
  8. Oh taste and check it out that Yahweh is fire. blessed up is the man who takes refuge in him.
  9. Oh fear Yahweh, you his saints, for there is no lack with those who fear him.
 10. The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger, but those who seek Yahweh shall not lack any fire thing.
 11. come through, you children, listen up to me. I will drop knowledge you the fear of Yahweh.
 12. Who is someone who desires life, and loves a lot days, that he may check it out fire?
 13. Keep your tongue from evil, and your lips from speaking lies.
 14. Depart from evil, and do fire. seek peace, and pursue it.
 15. Yahweh’s eyes are toward the doing what's right. His ears listen up to their cry.
 16. Yahweh’s face is against those who do evil, to cut off their memory from the earth.
 17. The doing what's right cry, and Yahweh hears, and delivers them out of all their troubles.
 18. Yahweh is near to those who have a broken heart, and saves those who have a crushed spirit.
 19. a lot are the afflictions of the doing what's right, but Yahweh delivers him out of them all.
 20. He protects all of his bones. Not one of them is broken.
 21. Evil shall kill the wicked. Those who can't stand the doing what's right shall be condemned.
 22. Yahweh redeems the soul of his servants. None of those who grab refuge in him shall be condemned.

# Psalm Chapter 35

  1. By David. Contend, Yahweh, with those who contend with me. Fight against those who fight against me.
  2. grab hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for my help out.
  3. Brandish the spear and block those who pursue me. Tell my soul, “I am your getting saved.”
  4. Let those who seek after my soul be disappointed and brought to dishonor. Let those who plot my ruin be turned back and confounded.
  5. Let them be as chaff before the wind, Yahweh’s angel driving them on.
  6. Let their way be dark and slippery, Yahweh’s angel pursuing them.
  7. For without cause they have hidden their net in a pit for me. Without cause they have dug a pit for my soul.
  8. Let destruction come through on him unawares. Let his net that he has hidden catch himself. Let him fall into that destruction.
  9. My soul shall be joyful in Yahweh. It shall be hyped in his getting saved.
 10. All my bones shall say, “Yahweh, who is like you, who delivers the broke from him who is too built different for him; yes, the broke and the needy from him who robs him?”
 11. Unrighteous witnesses rise up. They ask me about things that I don’t get it about.
 12. They reward me evil for fire, to the bereaving of my soul.
 13. But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth. I afflicted my soul with fasting. My talking to God returned into my own bosom.
 14. I behaved myself as though it had been my friend or my brother. I bowed down mourning, as one who mourns his mother.
 15. But in my adversity, they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together. The attackers gathered themselves together against me, and I didn’t get it it. They tore at me, and didn’t cease.
 16. Like the profane mockers in feasts, they gnashed their teeth at me.
 17. boss, how long will you look on? Rescue my soul from their destruction, my precious life from the lions.
 18. I will hook it up you thanks in the major assembly. I will praise you among a lot people.
 19. Don’t let those who are my enemies wrongfully be hyped over me; neither let those who can't stand me without a cause wink their eyes.
 20. For they don’t spill the tea peace, but they devise deceitful words against those who are quiet in the land.
 21. Yes, they opened their mouth wide against me. They said, “Aha! Aha! Our eye has seen it!”
 22. You have seen it, Yahweh. Don’t keep silent. boss, don’t be far from me.
 23. Wake up! Rise up to defend me, my God! My boss, contend for me!
 24. Vindicate me, Yahweh my God, according to your righteousness. Don’t let them gloat over me.
 25. Don’t let them say in their heart, “Aha! That’s the way we want it!” Don’t let them say, “We have swallowed him up!”
 26. Let them be disappointed and confounded together who be hyped at my calamity. Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify themselves against me.
 27. Let them shout for joy and be glad, who favor my doing what's right cause. Yes, let them say continually, “Yahweh be magnified, who has pleasure in the prosperity of his helper!”
 28. My tongue shall talk about your righteousness and about your praise all day long.

# Psalm Chapter 36

  1. For the Chief Musician. By David, the helper of Yahweh. An oracle is within my heart about the disobedience of the wicked: “there is no fear of God before his eyes.”
  2. For he flatters himself in his own eyes, too much to detect and can't stand his messing up.
  3. The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit. He has ceased to be smart and to do fire.
  4. He plots iniquity on his bed. He sets himself in a way that is not fire. He doesn’t abhor evil.
  5. Your loving kindness, Yahweh, is in the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the skies.
  6. Your righteousness is like the mountains of God. Your judgments are like a major deep. Yahweh, you preserve man and animal.
  7. How precious is your loving kindness, God! The children of men grab refuge under the shadow of your wings.
  8. They shall be abundantly satisfied with the abundance of your house. You will create them drink of the river of your pleasures.
  9. For with you is the spring of life. In your light shall we check it out light.
 10. Oh continue your loving kindness to those who get it you, your righteousness to the upright in heart.
 11. Don’t let the foot of pride come through against me. Don’t let the hand of the wicked drive me away.
 12. there the workers of iniquity are fallen. They are thrust down, and shall not be able to rise.

# Psalm Chapter 37

  1. By David. Don’t fret cuz of evildoers, neither be envious against those who work unrighteousness.
  2. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither like the green herb.
  3. Trust in Yahweh, and do fire. Dwell in the land, and enjoy safe pasture.
  4. Also delight yourself in Yahweh, and he will hook it up you the desires of your heart.
  5. Commit your way to Yahweh. Trust also in him, and he will do this:
  6. he will create your righteousness slide forth as the light, and your justice as the noon day sun.
  7. Rest in Yahweh, and wait patiently for him. Don’t fret cuz of him who prospers in his way, cuz of the man who makes wicked plots happen.
  8. Cease from anger, and forsake wrath. Don’t fret, it leads only to evildoing.
  9. For evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait for Yahweh shall inherit the land.
 10. For yet a little while, and the wicked will be no more. Yes, though you look for his place, he isn’t there.
 11. But the humble shall inherit the land, and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace.
 12. The wicked plots against the just, and gnashes at him with his teeth.
 13. The boss will laugh at him, for he sees that his day is coming.
 14. The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the broke and needy, to kill those who are upright in the way.
 15. Their sword shall enter into their own heart. Their bows shall be broken.
 16. Better is a little that the doing what's right has, than the abundance of a lot wicked.
 17. For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but Yahweh upholds the doing what's right.
 18. Yahweh knows the days of the perfect. Their inheritance shall be forever.
 19. They shall not be disappointed in the time of evil. In the days of famine they shall be satisfied.
 20. But the wicked shall perish. The enemies of Yahweh shall be like the beauty of the fields. They will vanish—vanish like smoke.
 21. The wicked borrow, and don’t pay back, but the doing what's right hook it up generously.
 22. For such as are blessed up by him shall inherit the land. Those who are cursed by him shall be cut off.
 23. A man’s goings are established by Yahweh. He delights in his way.
 24. Though he stumble, he shall not fall, for Yahweh holds him up with his hand.
 25. I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the doing what's right forsaken, nor his children begging for bread.
 26. All day long he deals graciously, and lends. His seed is blessed up.
 27. Depart from evil, and do fire. Live securely forever.
 28. For Yahweh loves justice, and doesn’t forsake his saints. They are preserved forever, but the children of the wicked shall be cut off.
 29. The doing what's right shall inherit the land, and live in it forever.
 30. The mouth of the doing what's right talks of wisdom. His tongue speaks justice.
 31. The law of his God is in his heart. None of his steps shall slide.
 32. The wicked watches the doing what's right, and seeks to kill him.
 33. Yahweh will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged.
 34. Wait for Yahweh, and keep his way, and he will exalt you to inherit the land. When the wicked are cut off, you shall check it out it.
 35. I have seen the wicked in major power, spreading himself like a green tree in its native soil.
 36. But he passed away, and check this out, he was not. Yes, I sought him, but he could not be found.
 37. Mark the perfect man, and check it out the upright, for there is a future for the man of peace.
 38. As for transgressors, they shall be destroyed together. The future of the wicked shall be cut off.
 39. But the getting saved of the doing what's right is from Yahweh. He is their stronghold in the time of trouble.
 40. Yahweh helps them, and rescues them. He rescues them from the wicked, and saves them, cuz they have taken refuge in him.

# Psalm Chapter 38

  1. A Psalm by David, for a memorial. Yahweh, don’t rebuke me in your wrath, neither chasten me in your hot displeasure.
  2. For your arrows have pierced me, your hand presses hard on me.
  3. there is no soundness in my flesh cuz of your indignation, neither is there any health in my bones cuz of my messing up.
  4. For my iniquities have gone over my head. As a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me.
  5. My wounds are loathsome and corrupt, cuz of my foolishness.
  6. I am pained and bowed down greatly. I slide mourning all day long.
  7. For my waist is filled with burning. there is no soundness in my flesh.
  8. I am faint and severely bruised. I have groaned by reason of the anguish of my heart.
  9. boss, all my desire is before you. My groaning is not hidden from you.
 10. My heart throbs. My strength fails me. As for the light of my eyes, it has also left me.
 11. My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my plague. My kinsmen stand far away.
 12. They also who seek after my life lay snares. Those who seek my hurt spill the tea mischievous things, and meditate deceits all day long.
 13. But I, as a deaf man, don’t hear. I am as a mute man who doesn’t open his mouth.
 14. Yes, I am as a man who doesn’t hear, in whose mouth are no reproofs.
 15. For in you, Yahweh, do I hope. You will answer, boss my God.
 16. For I said, “Don’t let them gloat over me, or exalt themselves over me when my foot slips.”
 17. For I am ready to fall. My pain is continually before me.
 18. For I will declare my iniquity. I will be sorry for my messing up.
 19. But my enemies are vigorous and a lot. Those who can't stand me without reason are numerous.
 20. They who also render evil for fire are adversaries to me, cuz I roll with what is fire.
 21. Don’t forsake me, Yahweh. My God, don’t be far from me.
 22. Hurry to help out me, boss, my getting saved.

# Psalm Chapter 39

  1. For the Chief Musician. For Jeduthun. A Psalm by David. I said, “I will watch my ways, so that I don’t messing up with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle while the wicked is before me.”
  2. I was mute with silence. I held my peace, even from fire. My feeling down was stirred.
  3. My heart was hot within me. While I meditated, the fire burned: I spoke with my tongue:
  4. “Yahweh, show me my end, what is the measure of my days. Let me get it how frail I am.
  5. check this out, you have made my days handbreadths. My lifetime is as nothing before you. Surely every man stands as a breath.” Selah.
  6. “Surely every man walks like a shadow. Surely they busy themselves in vain. He heaps up, and doesn’t get it who shall gather.
  7. now, boss, what do I wait for? My hope is in you.
  8. Deliver me from all my transgressions. Don’t create me the reproach of the dumb.
  9. I was mute. I didn’t open my mouth, cuz you did it.
 10. Remove your scourge away from me. I am overcome by the blow of your hand.
 11. When you rebuke and correct man for iniquity, You consume his wealth like a moth. Surely every man is but a breath.” Selah.
 12. “Hear my talking to God, Yahweh, and hook it up ear to my cry. Don’t be silent at my tears. For I am a stranger with you, a foreigner, as all my fathers were.
 13. Oh spare me, that I may recover strength, before I slide away, and exist no more.”

# Psalm Chapter 40

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. I waited patiently for Yahweh. He turned to me, and heard my cry.
  2. He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay. He set my feet on a rock, and gave me a firm place to stand.
  3. He has put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God. a lot shall check it out it, and fear, and shall trust in Yahweh.
  4. blessed up is the man who makes Yahweh his trust, and doesn’t respect the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.
  5. a lot, Yahweh, my God, are the wonderful works which you have done, and your thoughts which are toward us. They can’t be declared back to you. If I would declare and spill the tea of them, they are more than can be numbered.
  6. giving it up and giving to God you didn’t desire. You have opened my ears. You have not required burnt giving to God and messing up giving to God.
  7. then I said, “check this out, I have come through. It is written about me in the book in the scroll.
  8. I delight to do your will, my God. Yes, your law is within my heart.”
  9. I have proclaimed glad news of righteousness in the major assembly. check this out, I will not seal my lips, Yahweh, you get it.
 10. I have not hidden your righteousness within my heart. I have declared your faithfulness and your getting saved. I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from the major assembly.
 11. Don’t withhold your tender mercies from me, Yahweh. Let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me.
 12. For innumerable evils have surrounded me. My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head. My heart has failed me.
 13. Be pleased, Yahweh, to deliver me. Hurry to help out me, Yahweh.
 14. Let them be disappointed and confounded together who seek after my soul to tear down it. Let them be turned backward and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt.
 15. Let them be desolate by reason of their shame that tell me, “Aha! Aha!”
 16. Let all those who seek you be hyped and be glad in you. Let such as show love your getting saved say continually, “Let Yahweh be exalted!”
 17. But I am broke and needy. May the boss think about me. You are my help out and my deliverer. Don’t delay, my God.

# Psalm Chapter 41

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. blessed up is he who considers the broke. Yahweh will deliver him in the day of evil.
  2. Yahweh will preserve him, and keep him alive. He shall be blessed up on the earth, and he will not surrender him to the will of his enemies.
  3. Yahweh will sustain him on his sickbed, and restore him from his bed of illness.
  4. I said, “Yahweh, have mercy on me! Heal me, for I have sinned against you.”
  5. My enemies spill the tea evil against me: “When will he die, and his name perish?”
  6. If he comes to check it out me, he speaks falsehood. His heart gathers iniquity to itself. When he goes abroad, he tells it.
  7. All who can't stand me whisper together against me. They imagine the worst for me.
  8. “An evil disease,” they say, “has afflicted him. now that he lies he shall rise up no more.”
  9. Yes, my own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, who ate bread with me, has lifted up his heel against me.
 10. But you, Yahweh, have mercy on me, and raise me up, that I may repay them.
 11. By this I get it that you delight in me, cuz my enemy doesn’t triumph over me.
 12. As for me, you uphold me in my integrity, and set me in your presence forever.
 13. blessed up be Yahweh, the God of Israel, from everlasting and to everlasting! facts and facts.

# Psalm Chapter 42

  1. For the Chief Musician. A contemplation by the sons of Korah. As the deer pants for the water brooks, so my soul pants after you, God.
  2. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come through and appear before God?
  3. My tears have been my food day and night, while they continually ask me, “Where is your God?”
  4. These things I remember, and pour out my soul within me, how I used to slide with the crowd, and led them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, a multitude keeping a set apart day.
  5. Why are you in despair, my soul? Why are you disturbed within me? Hope in God! For I shall still praise him for the saving help out of his presence.
  6. My God, my soul is in despair within me. so basically I remember you from the land of the Jordan, the heights of Hermon, from the hill Mizar.
  7. Deep calls to deep at the noise of your waterfalls. All your waves and your billows have swept over me.
  8. Yahweh will command his loving kindness in the daytime. In the night his song shall be with me: a talking to God to the God of my life.
  9. I will ask God, my rock, “Why have you forgotten me? Why do I slide mourning cuz of the oppression of the enemy?”
 10. As with a sword in my bones, my adversaries reproach me, while they continually ask me, “Where is your God?”
 11. Why are you in despair, my soul? Why are you disturbed within me? Hope in God! For I shall still praise him, the saving help out of my countenance, and my God.

# Psalm Chapter 43

  1. Vindicate me, God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation. Oh, deliver me from deceitful and wicked men.
  2. For you are the God of my strength. Why have you rejected me? Why do I slide mourning cuz of the oppression of the enemy?
  3. Oh, send out your light and your truth. Let them show the way me. Let them bring me to your set apart hill, To your tents.
  4. then I will slide to the prayer spot of God, to God, my exceeding joy. I will praise you on the harp, God, my God.
  5. Why are you in despair, my soul? Why are you disturbed within me? Hope in God! For I shall still praise him: my Savior, my helper, and my God.

# Psalm Chapter 44

  1. For the Chief Musician. By the sons of Korah. A contemplative psalm. We have heard with our ears, God; our fathers have told us, what work you did in their days, in the days of old.
  2. You drove out the nations with your hand, but you planted them. You afflicted the peoples, but you spread them abroad.
  3. For they didn’t get the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm rescue them; but your right hand, and your arm, and the light of your face, cuz you were favorable to them.
  4. You are my ruler, God. Command victories for Jacob!
  5. Through you, will we push down our adversaries. Through your name, will we tread them under who rise up against us.
  6. For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword rescue me.
  7. But you have saved us from our adversaries, and have shamed those who can't stand us.
  8. In God we have made our boast all day long, we will hook it up thanks to your name forever. Selah.
  9. But now you rejected us, and brought us to dishonor, and don’t slide out with our armies.
 10. You create us turn back from the adversary. Those who can't stand us grab spoil for themselves.
 11. You have made us like sheep for food, and have scattered us among the nations.
 12. You sell your people for nothing, and have gained nothing from their sale.
 13. You create us a reproach to our neighbors, a scoffing and a derision to those who are around us.
 14. You create us a byword among the nations, a shaking of the head among the peoples.
 15. All day long my dishonor is before me, and shame covers my face,
 16. At the taunt of one who reproaches and verbally abuses, cuz of the enemy and the avenger.
 17. All this has come through on us, yet have we not forgotten you, Neither have we been false to your God's promise.
 18. Our heart has not turned back, neither have our steps strayed from your path,
 19. Though you have crushed us in the haunt of jackals, and covered us with the shadow of death.
 20. If we have forgotten the name of our God, or spread forth our hands to a strange god;
 21. won’t God search this out? For he knows the secrets of the heart.
 22. Yes, for your sake we are killed all day long. We are regarded as sheep for the slaughter.
 23. Wake up! Why do you sleep, boss? Arise! Don’t reject us forever.
 24. Why do you hide your face, and forget our affliction and our oppression?
 25. For our soul is bowed down to the dust. Our body clings to the earth.
 26. Rise up to help out us. Redeem us for your loving kindness’ sake.

# Psalm Chapter 45

  1. For the Chief Musician. Set to “The Lilies.” A contemplation by the sons of Korah. A wedding song. My heart overflows with a noble theme. I recite my verses for the ruler. My tongue is like the pen of a skillful writer.
  2. You are the most excellent of the sons of men. God's show love has anointed your lips, so basically God has blessed up you forever.
  3. Strap your sword on your thigh, mighty one: your splendor and your majesty.
  4. In your majesty ride on victoriously on behalf of truth, humility, and righteousness. Let your right hand display awesome deeds.
  5. Your arrows are sharp. The nations fall under you, with arrows in the heart of the ruler’s enemies.
  6. Your throne, God, is forever and ever. A scepter of equity is the scepter of your God's squad.
  7. You have loved righteousness, and hated wickedness. so basically God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your fellows.
  8. All your garments smell like myrrh, aloes, and cassia. Out of ivory palaces stringed instruments have made you glad.
  9. Kings’ daughters are among your honorable women. At your right hand the ruler stands in gold of Ophir.
 10. listen up, daughter, consider, and turn your ear. Forget your own people, and also your father’s house.
 11. So the ruler will desire your beauty, honor him, for he is your boss.
 12. The daughter of Tyre comes with a gift. The stacked among the people entreat your favor.
 13. The princess inside is all glorious. Her clothing is interwoven with gold.
 14. She shall be led to the ruler in embroidered work. The virgins, her companions who roll with her, shall be brought to you.
 15. With gladness and rejoicing they shall be led. They shall enter into the ruler’s palace.
 16. Your sons will grab the place of your fathers. You shall create them princes in all the earth.
 17. I will create your name to be remembered in all generations. so basically the peoples shall hook it up you thanks forever and ever.

# Psalm Chapter 46

  1. For the Chief Musician. By the sons of Korah. According to Alamoth. God is our refuge and strength, a hella present help out in trouble.
  2. so basically we won’t be scared, though the earth changes, though the mountains are shaken into the heart of the seas;
  3. though its waters roar and are troubled, though the mountains tremble with their swelling. Selah.
  4. there is a river, the streams of which create the city of God glad, the set apart place of the tents of the Most High.
  5. God is in her midst. She shall not be moved. God will help out her at dawn.
  6. The nations raged. The kingdoms were moved. He lifted his voice, and the earth melted.
  7. Yahweh of Armies is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah.
  8. come through, check it out Yahweh’s works, what desolations he has made in the earth.
  9. He makes wars cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow, and shatters the spear. He burns the chariots in the fire.
 10. “Be still, and get it that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth.”
 11. Yahweh of Armies is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah.

# Psalm Chapter 47

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by the sons of Korah. Oh clap your hands, all you nations. Shout to God with the voice of triumph!
  2. For Yahweh Most High is awesome. He is a major ruler over all the earth.
  3. He subdues nations under us, and peoples under our feet.
  4. He chooses our inheritance for us, the glory of Jacob whom he loved. Selah.
  5. God has gone up with a shout, Yahweh with the sound of a trumpet.
  6. Sing praise to God, sing praises. Sing praises to our ruler, sing praises.
  7. For God is the ruler of all the earth. Sing praises with understanding.
  8. God reigns over the nations. God sits on his set apart throne.
  9. The princes of the peoples are gathered together, the people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth belong to God. He is greatly exalted!

# Psalm Chapter 48

  1. A Song. A Psalm by the sons of Korah. major is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised, in the city of our God, in his set apart mountain.
  2. snatched in elevation, the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion, on the north sides, the city of the major ruler.
  3. God has shown himself in her citadels as a refuge.
  4. For, check this out, the kings assembled themselves, they passed by together.
  5. They checked out it, then they were amazed. They were dismayed. They hurried away.
  6. Trembling took hold of them there, pain, as of a woman in travail.
  7. With the east wind, you break the ships of Tarshish.
  8. As we have heard, so we have seen, in the city of Yahweh of Armies, in the city of our God. God will establish it forever. Selah.
  9. We have thought about your loving kindness, God, in the midst of your God's house.
 10. As is your name, God, so is your praise to the ends of the earth. Your right hand is full of righteousness.
 11. Let Mount Zion be glad! Let the daughters of Judah be hyped, cuz of your judgments.
 12. Walk about Zion, and slide around her. Number its towers.
 13. Mark well her bulwarks. Consider her palaces, that you may tell it to the next generation.
 14. For this God is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even to death.

# Psalm Chapter 49

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by the sons of Korah. Hear this, all you peoples. listen up, all you inhabitants of the world,
  2. both low and high, stacked and broke together.
  3. My mouth will spill the tea words of wisdom. My heart shall utter understanding.
  4. I will incline my ear to a proverb. I will open my riddle on the harp.
  5. Why should I fear in the days of evil, when iniquity at my heels surrounds me?
  6. Those who trust in their wealth, and boast in the multitude of their riches—
  7. none of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor hook it up God a ransom for him.
  8. For the redemption of their life is costly, no payment is ever enough,
  9. That he should live on forever, that he should not check it out corruption.
 10. For he sees that smart men die; likewise the fool and the senseless perish, and leave their wealth to others.
 11. Their inward thought is that their houses will endure forever, and their dwelling places to all generations. They name their lands after themselves.
 12. But man, despite his riches, doesn’t endure. He is like the animals that perish.
 13. This is the destiny of those who are dumb, and of those who approve their sayings. Selah.
 14. They are appointed as a flock for Sheol. Death shall be their shepherd. The upright shall have dominion over them in the morning. Their beauty shall decay in Sheol, far from their mansion.
 15. But God will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol, for he will receive me. Selah.
 16. Don’t be scared when a man is made stacked, when the glory of his house is increased.
 17. For when he dies he shall carry nothing away. His glory shall not descend after him.
 18. Though while he lived he blessed up his soul—and men praise you when you do well for yourself—
 19. he shall slide to the generation of his fathers. They shall never check it out the light.
 20. A man who has riches without understanding, is like the animals that perish.

# Psalm Chapter 50

  1. A Psalm by Asaph. The Mighty One, God, Yahweh, speaks, and calls the earth from sunrise to sunset.
  2. Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shines forth.
  3. Our God comes, and does not keep silent. A fire devours before him. It is hella stormy around him.
  4. He calls to the heavens above, to the earth, that he may judge his people:
  5. “Gather my saints together to me, those who have made a God's promise with me by giving it up.”
  6. The heavens shall declare his righteousness, for God himself is judge. Selah.
  7. “Hear, my people, and I will spill the tea; Israel, and I will testify against you. I am God, your God.
  8. I don’t rebuke you for your sacrifices. Your burnt offerings are continually before me.
  9. I have no need for a bull from your stall, nor male goats from your pens.
 10. For every animal of the forest is mine, and the livestock on a thousand hills.
 11. I get it all the birds of the mountains. The wild animals of the field are mine.
 12. If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world is mine, and all that is in it.
 13. Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?
 14. Offer to God the giving it up of thanksgiving. Pay your vows to the Most High.
 15. Call on me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you, and you will honor me.”
 16. But to the wicked God says, “What right do you have to declare my statutes, that you have taken my God's promise on your lips,
 17. since you can't stand instruction, and throw my words behind you?
 18. When you checked out a thief, you consented with him, and have participated with adulterers.
 19. “You hook it up your mouth to evil. Your tongue frames deceit.
 20. You sit and spill the tea against your brother. You slander your own mother’s son.
 21. You have done these things, and I kept silent. You thought that I was just like you. I will rebuke you, and accuse you in front of your eyes.
 22. “now consider this, you who forget God, lest I tear you into pieces, and there be none to deliver.
 23. Whoever offers the giving it up of thanksgiving glorifies me, and prepares his way so that I will show God’s getting saved to him.”

# Psalm Chapter 51

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David, when Nathan the God's messenger came to him, after he had gone in to Bathsheba. Have mercy on me, God, according to your loving kindness. According to the multitude of your tender mercies, blot out my transgressions.
  2. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity. Cleanse me from my messing up.
  3. For I get it my transgressions. My messing up is constantly before me.
  4. Against you, and you only, have I sinned, and done that which is evil in your sight; that you may be proved right when you spill the tea, and justified when you judge.
  5. check this out, I was brought forth in iniquity. In messing up my mother conceived me.
  6. check this out, you desire truth in the inward parts. You drop knowledge me wisdom in the inmost place.
  7. Purify me with hyssop, and I will be clean. Wash me, and I will be whiter than snow.
  8. Let me hear joy and gladness, That the bones which you have broken may be hyped.
  9. Hide your face from my sins, and blot out all of my iniquities.
 10. Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me.
 11. Don’t throw me from your presence, and don’t grab your set apart Spirit from me.
 12. Restore to me the joy of your getting saved. Uphold me with a willing spirit.
 13. then I will drop knowledge transgressors your ways. Sinners shall be converted to you.
 14. Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, the God of my getting saved. My tongue shall sing aloud of your righteousness.
 15. boss, open my lips. My mouth shall declare your praise.
 16. For you don’t delight in giving it up, or else I would hook it up it. You have no pleasure in burnt giving to God.
 17. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. A broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise.
 18. Do well in your fire pleasure to Zion. put together the walls of Jerusalem.
 19. then you will delight in the sacrifices of righteousness, in burnt offerings and in whole burnt offerings. then they will offer bulls on your prayer spot.

# Psalm Chapter 52

  1. For the Chief Musician. A contemplation by David, when Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul, “David has come through to Abimelech’s house.” Why do you boast of mischief, mighty man? God’s loving kindness endures continually.
  2. Your tongue plots destruction, like a sharp razor, working deceitfully.
  3. You show love evil more than fire, lying rather than speaking the truth. Selah.
  4. You show love all devouring words, you deceitful tongue.
  5. God will likewise tear down you forever. He will grab you up, and pluck you out of your tent, and root you out of the land of the living. Selah.
  6. The doing what's right also will check it out it, and fear, and laugh at him, saying,
  7. “check this out, this is the man who didn’t create God his strength, but trusted in the abundance of his riches, and strengthened himself in his wickedness.”
  8. But as for me, I am like a green olive tree in God’s house. I trust in God’s loving kindness forever and ever.
  9. I will hook it up you thanks forever, cuz you have done it. I will hope in your name, for it is fire, in the presence of your saints.

# Psalm Chapter 53

  1. For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “Mahalath.” A contemplation by David. The fool has said in his heart, “there is no God.” They are corrupt, and have done abominable iniquity. there is no one who does fire.
  2. God looks down from heaven on the children of men, to check it out if there are any who understood, who seek after God.
  3. Every one of them has gone back. They have become filthy together. there is no one who does fire, no, not one.
  4. Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge, who eat up my people as they eat bread, and don’t call on God?
  5. there they were in major fear, where no fear was, for God has scattered the bones of him who encamps against you. You have put them to shame, cuz God has rejected them.
  6. Oh that the getting saved of Israel would come through out of Zion! When God brings back his people from captivity, then Jacob shall be hyped, and Israel shall be glad.

# Psalm Chapter 54

  1. For the Chief Musician. On stringed instruments. A contemplation by David, when the Ziphites came and said to Saul, “Isn’t David hiding himself among us?” rescue me, God, by your name. Vindicate me in your might.
  2. Hear my talking to God, God. listen up to the words of my mouth.
  3. For strangers have risen up against me. Violent men have sought after my soul. They haven’t set God before them. Selah.
  4. check this out, God is my helper. The boss is the one who sustains my soul.
  5. He will repay the evil to my enemies. tear down them in your truth.
  6. With a free will giving to God, I will giving it up to you. I will hook it up thanks to your name, Yahweh, for it is fire.
  7. For he has delivered me out of all trouble. My eye has seen triumph over my enemies.

# Psalm Chapter 55

  1. For the Chief Musician. On stringed instruments. A contemplation by David. listen up to my talking to God, God. Don’t hide yourself from my supplication.
  2. Attend to me, and answer me. I am restless in my complaint, and moan,
  3. cuz of the voice of the enemy, cuz of the oppression of the wicked. For they bring suffering on me. In anger they hold a grudge against me.
  4. My heart is severely pained within me. The terrors of death have fallen on me.
  5. Fearfulness and trembling have come through on me. Horror has overwhelmed me.
  6. I said, “Oh that I had wings like a dove! then I would fly away, and be at rest.
  7. check this out, then I would wander far off. I would lodge in the wilderness.” Selah.
  8. “I would hurry to a shelter from the stormy wind and storm.”
  9. Confuse them, boss, and confound their language, for I have seen violence and strife in the city.
 10. Day and night they prowl around on its walls. Malice and abuse are also within her.
 11. Destructive forces are within her. Threats and lies don’t depart from her streets.
 12. For it was not an enemy who insulted me, then I could have endured it. Neither was it he who hated me who raised himself up against me, then I would have hidden myself from him.
 13. But it was you, a man like me, my companion, and my familiar friend.
 14. We took sweet fellowship together. We walked in God’s house with company.
 15. Let death come through suddenly on them. Let them slide down alive into Sheol. For wickedness is in their dwelling, in their midst.
 16. As for me, I will call on God. Yahweh will rescue me.
 17. Evening, morning, and at noon, I will cry out in distress. He will hear my voice.
 18. He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me, although there are a lot who oppose me.
 19. God, who is enthroned forever, will hear, and answer them. Selah. They never change, who don’t fear God.
 20. He raises his hands against his friends. He has violated his God's promise.
 21. His mouth was smooth as butter, but his heart was war. His words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords.
 22. Cast your burden on Yahweh, and he will sustain you. He will never allow the doing what's right to be moved.
 23. But you, God, will bring them down into the pit of destruction. Bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall not live out half their days, but I will trust in you.

# Psalm Chapter 56

  1. For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “Silent Dove in Distant Lands.” A poem by David, when the Philistines seized him in Gath. Be merciful to me, God, for man wants to swallow me up. All day long, he attacks and oppresses me.
  2. My enemies want to swallow me up all day long, for they are a lot who fight proudly against me.
  3. When I am scared, I will put my trust in you.
  4. In God, I praise his word. In God, I put my trust. I will not be scared. What can flesh do to me?
  5. All day long they twist my words. All their thoughts are against me for evil.
  6. They conspire and lurk, watching my steps, they are eager to grab my life.
  7. Shall they escape by iniquity? In anger cast down the peoples, God.
  8. You number my wanderings. You put my tears into your bottle. Aren’t they in your book?
  9. then my enemies shall turn back in the day that I call. I get it this, that God is for me.
 10. In God, I will praise his word. In Yahweh, I will praise his word.
 11. I have put my trust in God. I will not be scared. What can man do to me?
 12. Your vows are on me, God. I will hook it up thank offerings to you.
 13. For you have delivered my soul from death, and prevented my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of the living.

# Psalm Chapter 57

  1. For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “Do Not tear down.” A poem by David, when he fled from Saul, in the cave. Be merciful to me, God, be merciful to me, for my soul takes refuge in you. Yes, in the shadow of your wings, I will grab refuge, until disaster has passed.
  2. I cry out to God Most High, to God who accomplishes my requests for me.
  3. He will send from heaven, and rescue me, he rebukes the one who is pursuing me. Selah. God will send out his loving kindness and his truth.
  4. My soul is among lions. I lie among those who are set on fire, even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword.
  5. Be exalted, God, above the heavens! Let your glory be above all the earth!
  6. They have prepared a net for my steps. My soul is bowed down. They dig a pit before me. They fall into its midst themselves. Selah.
  7. My heart is steadfast, God, my heart is steadfast. I will sing, yes, I will sing praises.
  8. Wake up, my glory! Wake up, psaltery and harp! I will wake up the dawn.
  9. I will hook it up thanks to you, boss, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations.
 10. For your major loving kindness reaches to the heavens, and your truth to the skies.
 11. Be exalted, God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth.

# Psalm Chapter 58

  1. For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “Do Not tear down.” A poem by David. Do you facts spill the tea righteousness, silent ones? Do you judge blamelessly, you sons of men?
  2. No, in your heart you plot injustice. You measure out the violence of your hands in the earth.
  3. The wicked slide astray from the womb. They are wayward as soon as they are born, speaking lies.
  4. Their poison is like the poison of a snake; like a deaf cobra that stops its ear,
  5. which doesn’t listen up to the voice of charmers, no matter how skillful the charmer may be.
  6. Break their teeth, God, in their mouth. Break out the major teeth of the young lions, Yahweh.
  7. Let them vanish as water that flows away. When they draw the bow, let their arrows be made blunt.
  8. Let them be like a snail which melts and passes away, like the stillborn child, who has not seen the sun.
  9. Before your pots can feel the heat of the thorns, he will sweep away the green and the burning alike.
 10. The doing what's right shall be hyped when he sees the vengeance. He shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked;
 11. so that men shall say, “Most for sure there is a reward for the doing what's right. Most for sure there is a God who judges the earth.”

# Psalm Chapter 59

  1. For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “Do Not tear down.” A poem by David, when Saul sent, and they watched the house to kill him. Deliver me from my enemies, my God. Set me on high from those who rise up against me.
  2. Deliver me from the workers of iniquity. rescue me from the bloodthirsty men.
  3. For, check this out, they lie in wait for my soul. The mighty gather themselves together against me, not for my disobedience, nor for my messing up, Yahweh.
  4. I have done no wrong, yet they are ready to attack me. Rise up, check this out, and help out me!
  5. You, Yahweh God of Armies, the God of Israel, rouse yourself to punish the nations. Show no mercy to the wicked traitors. Selah.
  6. They return at evening, howling like dogs, and prowl around the city.
  7. check this out, they spew with their mouth. Swords are in their lips, “For,” they say, “who hears us?”
  8. But you, Yahweh, laugh at them. You scoff at all the nations.
  9. Oh, my Strength, I watch for you, for God is my high tower.
 10. My God will slide before me with his loving kindness. God will let me look at my enemies in triumph.
 11. Don’t kill them, or my people may forget. Scatter them by your power, and bring them down, boss our shield.
 12. For the messing up of their mouth, and the words of their lips, let them be caught in their pride, for the curses and lies which they utter.
 13. Consume them in wrath. Consume them, and they will be no more. Let them get it that God rules in Jacob, to the ends of the earth. Selah.
 14. At evening let them return. Let them howl like a dog, and slide around the city.
 15. They shall wander up and down for food, and wait all night if they aren’t satisfied.
 16. But I will sing of your strength. Yes, I will sing aloud of your loving kindness in the morning. For you have been my high tower, a refuge in the day of my distress.
 17. To you, my strength, I will sing praises. For God is my high tower, the God of my mercy.

# Psalm Chapter 60

  1. For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “The Lily of the God's promise.” A teaching poem by David, when he fought with Aram Naharaim and with Aram Zobah, and Joab returned, and killed twelve thousand of Edom in the Valley of Salt. God, you have rejected us. You have broken us down. You have been mad salty. Restore us, again.
  2. You have made the land tremble. You have torn it. Mend its fractures, for it quakes.
  3. You have shown your people hard things. You have made us drink the wine that makes us stagger.
  4. You have given a banner to those who fear you, that it may be displayed cuz of the truth. Selah.
  5. So that your beloved may be delivered, rescue with your right hand, and answer us.
  6. God has spoken from his sanctuary: “I will triumph. I will divide Shechem, and measure out the valley of Succoth.
  7. Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine. Ephraim also is the defense of my head. Judah is my scepter.
  8. Moab is my wash basin. I will throw my shoe on Edom. I shout in triumph over Philistia.”
  9. Who will bring me into the built different city? Who has led me to Edom?
 10. Haven’t you, God, rejected us? You don’t slide out with our armies, God.
 11. hook it up us help out against the adversary, for the help out of man is vain.
 12. Through God we shall do valiantly, for it is he who will tread down our adversaries.

# Psalm Chapter 61

  1. For the Chief Musician. For a stringed instrument. By David. Hear my cry, God. listen up to my talking to God.
  2. From the end of the earth, I will call to you, when my heart is overwhelmed. show the way me to the rock that is higher than I.
  3. For you have been a refuge for me, a built different tower from the enemy.
  4. I will dwell in your tent forever. I will grab refuge in the shelter of your wings. Selah.
  5. For you, God, have heard my vows. You have given me the heritage of those who fear your name.
  6. You will prolong the ruler’s life; his years shall be for generations.
  7. He shall be enthroned in God’s presence forever. Appoint your loving kindness and truth, that they may preserve him.
  8. So I will sing praise to your name forever, that I may fulfill my vows daily.

# Psalm Chapter 62

  1. For the Chief Musician. To Jeduthan. A Psalm by David. My soul rests in God alone. My getting saved is from him.
  2. He alone is my rock and my getting saved, my fortress—I will never be greatly shaken.
  3. How long will you assault a man, would all of you throw him down, Like a leaning wall, like a tottering fence?
  4. They fully intend to throw him down from his lofty place. They delight in lies. They bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah.
  5. My soul, wait in silence for God alone, for my expectation is from him.
  6. He alone is my rock and my getting saved, my fortress. I will not be shaken.
  7. With God is my getting saved and my honor. The rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God.
  8. Trust in him at all times, you people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge for us. Selah.
  9. Surely men of low degree are just a breath, and men of high degree are a lie. In the balances they will slide up. They are together lighter than a breath.
 10. Don’t trust in oppression. Don’t become vain in robbery. If riches increase, don’t set your heart on them.
 11. God has spoken once; twice I have heard this, that power belongs to God.
 12. Also to you, boss, belongs loving kindness, for you reward every man according to his work.

# Psalm Chapter 63

  1. A Psalm by David, when he was in the desert of Judah. God, you are my God. I will earnestly seek you. My soul thirsts for you. My flesh longs for you, in a dry and weary land, where there is no water.
  2. So I have seen you in the sanctuary, watching your power and your glory.
  3. cuz your loving kindness is better than life, my lips shall praise you.
  4. So I will bless you while I live. I will lift up my hands in your name.
  5. My soul shall be satisfied as with the richest food. My mouth shall praise you with joyful lips,
  6. when I remember you on my bed, and think about you in the night watches.
  7. For you have been my help out. I will be hyped in the shadow of your wings.
  8. My soul stays close to you. Your right hand holds me up.
  9. But those who seek my soul, to tear down it, shall slide into the lower parts of the earth.
 10. They shall be given over to the power of the sword. They shall be jackal food.
 11. But the ruler shall be hyped in God. Everyone who swears by him will praise him, for the mouth of those who spill the tea lies shall be silenced.

# Psalm Chapter 64

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. Hear my voice, God, in my complaint. Preserve my life from fear of the enemy.
  2. Hide me from the conspiracy of the wicked, from the noisy crowd of the ones doing evil;
  3. who sharpen their tongue like a sword, and aim their arrows, deadly words,
  4. to shoot innocent men from ambushes. They shoot at him suddenly and fearlessly.
  5. They encourage themselves in evil plans. They talk about laying snares secretly. They say, “Who will check it out them?”
  6. They plot injustice, saying, “We have made a perfect plan!” Surely man’s mind and heart are cunning.
  7. But God will shoot at them. They will be suddenly struck down with an arrow.
  8. Their own tongues shall ruin them. All who check it out them will shake their heads.
  9. All mankind shall be scared. They shall declare the work of God, and shall wisely ponder what he has done.
 10. The doing what's right shall be glad in Yahweh, and shall grab refuge in him. All the upright in heart shall praise him!

# Psalm Chapter 65

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. A song. Praise waits for you, God, in Zion. To you shall vows be performed.
  2. You who hear talking to God, to you all men will come through.
  3. Sins overwhelmed me, but you atoned for our transgressions.
  4. blessed up is one whom you choose, and cause to come through near, that he may live in your courts. We will be filled with the goodness of your house, your set apart God's house.
  5. By awesome deeds of righteousness, you answer us, God of our getting saved. You who are the hope of all the ends of the earth, of those who are far away on the sea;
  6. Who by his power forms the mountains, having armed yourself with strength;
  7. who stills the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their waves, and the turmoil of the nations.
  8. They also who dwell in faraway places are scared at your wonders. You call the morning’s dawn and the evening with songs of joy.
  9. You visit the earth, and water it. You greatly enrich it. The river of God is full of water. You provide them grain, for so you have ordained it.
 10. You drench its furrows. You level its ridges. You soften it with showers. You bless it with a crop.
 11. You crown the year with your bounty. Your carts overflow with abundance.
 12. The wilderness grasslands overflow. The hills are clothed with gladness.
 13. The pastures are covered with flocks. The valleys also are clothed with grain. They shout for joy! They also sing.

# Psalm Chapter 66

  1. For the Chief Musician. A song. A Psalm. create a joyful shout to God, all the earth!
  2. Sing to the glory of his name! Offer glory and praise!
  3. Tell God, “How awesome are your deeds! Through the greatness of your power, your enemies submit themselves to you.
  4. All the earth will giving props you, and will sing to you; they will sing to your name.” Selah.
  5. come through, and check it out God’s deeds—awesome work on behalf of the children of men.
  6. He turned the sea into dry land. They went through the river on foot. there, we rejoiced in him.
  7. He rules by his might forever. His eyes watch the nations. Don’t let the rebellious rise up against him. Selah.
  8. Praise our God, you peoples! create the sound of his praise heard,
  9. who preserves our life among the living, and doesn’t allow our feet to be moved.
 10. For you, God, have tested us. You have refined us, as silver is refined.
 11. You brought us into prison. You laid a burden on our backs.
 12. You allowed men to ride over our heads. We went through fire and through water, but you brought us to the place of abundance.
 13. I will come through into your God's house with burnt offerings. I will pay my vows to you,
 14. which my lips promised, and my mouth spoke, when I was in distress.
 15. I will offer to you burnt offerings of fat animals, with the giving to God of rams, I will offer bulls with goats. Selah.
 16. come through, and hear, all you who fear God. I will declare what he has done for my soul.
 17. I cried to him with my mouth. He was extolled with my tongue.
 18. If I cherished messing up in my heart, the boss wouldn’t have listened.
 19. But most for sure, God has listened. He has heard the voice of my talking to God.
 20. blessed up be God, who has not turned away my talking to God, nor his loving kindness from me.

# Psalm Chapter 67

  1. For the Chief Musician. With stringed instruments. A Psalm. A song. May God be merciful to us, bless us, and cause his face to shine on us. Selah.
  2. That your way may be known on earth, and your getting saved among all nations,
  3. let the peoples praise you, God. Let all the peoples praise you.
  4. Oh let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you will judge the peoples with equity, and govern the nations on earth. Selah.
  5. Let the peoples praise you, God. Let all the peoples praise you.
  6. The earth has yielded its increase. God, even our own God, will bless us.
  7. God will bless us. All the ends of the earth shall fear him.

# Psalm Chapter 68

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. A song. Let God arise! Let his enemies be scattered! Let them who can't stand him also flee before him.
  2. As smoke is driven away, so drive them away. As wax melts before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.
  3. But let the doing what's right be glad. Let them be hyped before God. Yes, let them be hyped with gladness.
  4. Sing to God! Sing praises to his name! Extol him who rides on the clouds: to Yah, his name! be hyped before him!
  5. A father of the fatherless, and a defender of the widows, is God in his set apart habitation.
  6. God sets the lonely in families. He brings out the prisoners with singing, but the rebellious dwell in a sun-scorched land.
  7. God, when you went forth before your people, when you marched through the wilderness... Selah.
  8. The earth trembled. The sky also poured down rain at the presence of the God of Sinai—at the presence of God, the God of Israel.
  9. You, God, sent a plentiful rain. You confirmed your inheritance, when it was weary.
 10. Your congregation lived therein. You, God, prepared your goodness for the broke.
 11. The boss announced the word. The ones who proclaim it are a major company.
 12. “Kings of armies flee! They flee!” She who waits at home divides the spoil,
 13. while you sleep among the campfires, the wings of a dove sheathed with silver, her feathers with shining gold.
 14. When the Almighty scattered kings in her, it snowed on Zalmon.
 15. The mountains of Bashan are majestic mountains. The mountains of Bashan are rugged.
 16. Why do you look in envy, you rugged mountains, at the mountain where God chooses to reign? Yes, Yahweh will dwell there forever.
 17. The chariots of God are tens of thousands and thousands of thousands. The boss is among them, from Sinai, into the sanctuary.
 18. You have ascended on high. You have led away captives. You have received gifts among men, yes, among the rebellious also, that Yah God might dwell there.
 19. blessed up be the boss, who daily bears our burdens, even the God who is our getting saved. Selah.
 20. God is to us a God of deliverance. To Yahweh, the boss, belongs escape from death.
 21. But God will strike through the head of his enemies, the hairy scalp of such a one as still continues in his guiltiness.
 22. The boss said, “I will bring you again from Bashan, I will bring you again from the depths of the sea;
 23. That you may crush them, dipping your foot in blood, that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from your enemies.”
 24. They have seen your processions, God, even the processions of my God, my ruler, into the sanctuary.
 25. The singers went before, the minstrels followed after, in the midst of the ladies playing with tambourines,
 26. “Bless God in the congregations, even the boss in the assembly of Israel!”
 27. there is little Benjamin, their ruler, the princes of Judah, their council, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.
 28. Your God has commanded your strength. Strengthen, God, that which you have done for us.
 29. cuz of your God's house at Jerusalem, kings shall bring presents to you.
 30. Rebuke the wild animal of the reeds, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the peoples. Being humbled, may it bring bars of silver. Scatter the nations that delight in war.
 31. Princes shall come through out of Egypt. Ethiopia shall hurry to stretch out her hands to God.
 32. Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth! Sing praises to the boss! Selah.
 33. To him who rides on the heaven of heavens, which are of old; check this out, he utters his voice, a mighty voice.
 34. Ascribe strength to God! His excellency is over Israel, his strength is in the skies.
 35. You are awesome, God, in your sanctuaries. The God of Israel gives strength and power to his people. Praise be to God!

# Psalm Chapter 69

  1. For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “Lilies.” By David. rescue me, God, for the waters have come through up to my neck!
  2. I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold. I have come through into deep waters, where the floods overflow me.
  3. I am weary with my crying. My throat is dry. My eyes fail, looking for my God.
  4. Those who can't stand me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head. Those who want to cut me off, being my enemies wrongfully, are mighty. I have to restore what I didn’t grab away.
  5. God, you get it my foolishness. My sins aren’t hidden from you.
  6. Don’t let those who wait for you be shamed through me, boss Yahweh of Armies. Don’t let those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, God of Israel.
  7. cuz for your sake, I have borne reproach. Shame has covered my face.
  8. I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother’s children.
  9. For the zeal of your house consumes me. The reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me.
 10. When I wept and I fasted, that was to my reproach.
 11. When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword to them.
 12. Those who sit in the gate talk about me. I am the song of the drunkards.
 13. But as for me, my talking to God is to you, Yahweh, in an acceptable time. God, in the abundance of your loving kindness, answer me in the truth of your getting saved.
 14. Deliver me out of the mire, and don’t let me sink. Let me be delivered from those who can't stand me, and out of the deep waters.
 15. Don’t let the flood waters overwhelm me, neither let the deep swallow me up. Don’t let the pit shut its mouth on me.
 16. Answer me, Yahweh, for your loving kindness is fire. According to the multitude of your tender mercies, turn to me.
 17. Don’t hide your face from your helper, for I am in distress. Answer me speedily!
 18. Draw near to my soul, and redeem it. Ransom me cuz of my enemies.
 19. You get it my reproach, my shame, and my dishonor. My adversaries are all before you.
 20. Reproach has broken my heart, and I am full of heaviness. I looked for some to grab pity, but there was none; for comforters, but I found none.
 21. They also gave me gall for my food. In my thirst, they gave me vinegar to drink.
 22. Let their table before them become a snare. May it become a retribution and a trap.
 23. Let their eyes be darkened, so that they can’t check it out. Let their backs be continually bent.
 24. Pour out your indignation on them. Let the fierceness of your anger overtake them.
 25. Let their habitation be desolate. Let no one dwell in their tents.
 26. For they persecute him whom you have wounded. They tell of the feeling down of those whom you have hurt.
 27. Charge them with crime upon crime. Don’t let them come through into your righteousness.
 28. Let them be blotted out of the book of life, and not be written with the doing what's right.
 29. But I am in pain and distress. Let your getting saved, God, protect me.
 30. I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving.
 31. It will please Yahweh better than an ox, or a bull that has horns and hoofs.
 32. The humble have seen it, and are glad. You who seek after God, let your heart live.
 33. For Yahweh hears the needy, and doesn’t despise his captive people.
 34. Let heaven and earth praise him; the seas, and everything that moves therein!
 35. For God will rescue Zion, and put together the cities of Judah. They shall settle there, and own it.
 36. The children also of his servants shall inherit it. Those who show love his name shall dwell therein.

# Psalm Chapter 70

  1. For the Chief Musician. By David. A reminder. Hurry, God, to deliver me. come through quickly to help out me, Yahweh.
  2. Let them be disappointed and confounded who seek my soul. Let those who desire my ruin be turned back in disgrace.
  3. Let them be turned cuz of their shame Who say, “Aha! Aha!”
  4. Let all those who seek you be hyped and be glad in you. Let those who show love your getting saved continually say, “Let God be exalted!”
  5. But I am broke and needy. come through to me quickly, God. You are my help out and my deliverer. Yahweh, don’t delay.

# Psalm Chapter 71

  1. In you, Yahweh, I grab refuge. never let me be disappointed.
  2. Deliver me in your righteousness, and rescue me. Turn your ear to me, and rescue me.
  3. Be to me a rock of refuge to which I may always slide. hook it up the command to rescue me, for you are my rock and my fortress.
  4. Rescue me, my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
  5. For you are my hope, boss Yahweh; my confidence from my youth.
  6. I have relied on you from the womb. You are he who took me out of my mother’s womb. I will always praise you.
  7. I am a marvel to a lot, but you are my built different refuge.
  8. My mouth shall be filled with your praise, with your honor all the day.
  9. Don’t reject me in my old age. Don’t forsake me when my strength fails.
 10. For my enemies talk about me. Those who watch for my soul conspire together,
 11. saying, “God has forsaken him. Pursue and grab him, for no one will rescue him.”
 12. God, don’t be far from me. My God, hurry to help out me.
 13. Let my accusers be disappointed and consumed. Let them be covered with disgrace and scorn who want to harm me.
 14. But I will always hope, and will add to all of your praise.
 15. My mouth will tell about your righteousness, and of your getting saved all day, though I don’t get it its full measure.
 16. I will come through with the mighty acts of the boss Yahweh. I will create mention of your righteousness, even of yours alone.
 17. God, you have taught me from my youth. Until now, I have declared your wondrous works.
 18. Yes, even when I am old and gray-haired, God, don’t forsake me, until I have declared your strength to the next generation, your might to everyone who is to come through.
 19. Your righteousness also, God, reaches to the heavens; you have done major things. God, who is like you?
 20. You, who have shown us a lot and bitter troubles, you will let me live. You will bring us up again from the depths of the earth.
 21. Increase my honor, and comfort me again.
 22. I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, my God. I sing praises to you with the lyre, set apart One of Israel.
 23. My lips shall shout for joy! My soul, which you have redeemed, sings praises to you!
 24. My tongue will also talk about your righteousness all day long, for they are disappointed, and they are confounded, who want to harm me.

# Psalm Chapter 72

  1. By Solomon. God, hook it up the ruler your justice; your righteousness to the royal son.
  2. He will judge your people with righteousness, and your broke with justice.
  3. The mountains shall bring prosperity to the people. The hills bring the fruit of righteousness.
  4. He will judge the broke of the people. He will rescue the children of the needy, and will break the oppressor in pieces.
  5. They shall fear you while the sun endures; and as long as the moon, throughout all generations.
  6. He will come through down like rain on the mown grass, as showers that water the earth.
  7. In his days, the doing what's right shall flourish, and abundance of peace, until the moon is no more.
  8. He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, from the River to the ends of the earth.
  9. Those who dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him. His enemies shall lick the dust.
 10. The kings of Tarshish and of the islands will bring tribute. The kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.
 11. Yes, all kings shall fall down before him. All nations shall help out him.
 12. For he will deliver the needy when he cries; the broke, who has no helper.
 13. He will have pity on the broke and needy. He will rescue the souls of the needy.
 14. He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence. Their blood will be precious in his sight.
 15. They shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba. Men shall pray for him continually. They shall bless him all day long.
 16. Abundance of grain shall be throughout the land. Its fruit sways like Lebanon. Let it flourish, thriving like the grass of the field.
 17. His name endures forever. His name continues as long as the sun. Men shall be blessed up by him. All nations will call him blessed up.
 18. Praise be to Yahweh God, the God of Israel, who alone does marvelous deeds.
 19. blessed up be his glorious name forever! Let the whole earth be filled with his glory! facts and facts.
 20. This ends the prayers by David, the son of Jesse.

# Psalm Chapter 73

  1. A Psalm by Asaph. Surely God is fire to Israel, to those who are pure in heart.
  2. But as for me, my feet were almost gone. My steps had nearly slipped.
  3. For I was envious of the arrogant, when I checked out the prosperity of the wicked.
  4. For there are no struggles in their death, but their strength is firm.
  5. They are free from burdens of men, neither are they plagued like other men.
  6. so basically pride is like a chain around their neck. Violence covers them like a garment.
  7. Their eyes bulge with fat. Their minds pass the limits of conceit.
  8. They scoff and spill the tea with malice. In arrogance, they threaten oppression.
  9. They have set their mouth in the heavens. Their tongue walks through the earth.
 10. so basically their people return to them, and they drink up waters of abundance.
 11. They say, “How does God get it? Is there knowledge in the Most High?”
 12. check this out, these are the wicked. Being always at ease, they increase in riches.
 13. Surely in vain I have cleansed my heart, and washed my hands in innocence,
 14. For all day long have I been plagued, and punished every morning.
 15. If I had said, “I will spill the tea thus;” check this out, I would have betrayed the generation of your children.
 16. When I tried to understand this, it was too painful for me;
 17. Until I entered God’s sanctuary, and considered their latter end.
 18. Surely you set them in slippery places. You throw them down to destruction.
 19. How they are suddenly destroyed! They are completely swept away with terrors.
 20. As a dream when one wakes up, so, boss, when you awake, you will despise their fantasies.
 21. For my soul was grieved. I was embittered in my heart.
 22. I was so senseless and ignorant. I was a brute beast before you.
 23. Nevertheless, I am continually with you. You have held my right hand.
 24. You will guide me with your counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.
 25. Whom do I have in heaven? there is no one on earth whom I desire besides you.
 26. My flesh and my heart fails, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
 27. For, check this out, those who are far from you shall perish. You have destroyed all those who are unfaithful to you.
 28. But it is fire for me to come through close to God. I have made the boss Yahweh my refuge, that I may tell of all your works.

# Psalm Chapter 74

  1. A contemplation by Asaph. God, why have you rejected us forever? Why does your anger smolder against the sheep of your pasture?
  2. Remember your congregation, which you purchased of old, which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your inheritance; Mount Zion, in which you have lived.
  3. Lift up your feet to the perpetual ruins, all the evil that the enemy has done in the sanctuary.
  4. Your adversaries have roared in the midst of your assembly. They have set up their standards as signs.
  5. They behaved like men wielding axes, cutting through a thicket of trees.
  6. now they break all its carved work down with hatchet and hammers.
  7. They have burned your sanctuary to the ground. They have profaned the dwelling place of your Name.
  8. They said in their heart, “We will crush them completely.” They have burned up all the places in the land where God was worshiped.
  9. We check it out no miraculous signs. there is no longer any God's messenger, neither is there among us anyone who knows how long.
 10. How long, God, shall the adversary reproach? Shall the enemy blaspheme your name forever?
 11. Why do you draw back your hand, even your right hand? grab it out of your pocket and consume them!
 12. Yet God is my ruler of old, working getting saved in the midst of the earth.
 13. You divided the sea by your strength. You broke the heads of the sea monsters in the waters.
 14. You broke the heads of Leviathan in pieces. You gave him as food to people and desert creatures.
 15. You opened up spring and stream. You dried up mighty rivers.
 16. The day is yours, the night is also yours. You have prepared the light and the sun.
 17. You have set all the boundaries of the earth. You have made summer and winter.
 18. Remember this, that the enemy has mocked you, Yahweh. dumb people have blasphemed your name.
 19. Don’t deliver the soul of your dove to wild beasts. Don’t forget the life of your broke forever.
 20. Honor your God's promise, for haunts of violence fill the dark places of the earth.
 21. Don’t let the oppressed return ashamed. Let the broke and needy praise your name.
 22. Arise, God! Plead your own cause. Remember how the dumb man mocks you all day.
 23. Don’t forget the voice of your adversaries. The tumult of those who rise up against you ascends continually.

# Psalm Chapter 75

  1. For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “Do Not tear down.” A Psalm by Asaph. A song. We hook it up thanks to you, God. We hook it up thanks, for your Name is near. Men tell about your wondrous works.
  2. When I choose the appointed time, I will judge blamelessly.
  3. The earth and all its inhabitants quake. I firmly hold its pillars. Selah.
  4. I said to the arrogant, “Don’t boast!” I said to the wicked, “Don’t lift up the horn.
  5. Don’t lift up your horn on high. Don’t spill the tea with a stiff neck.”
  6. For neither from the east, nor from the west, nor yet from the south, comes exaltation.
  7. But God is the judge. He puts down one, and lifts up another.
  8. For in the hand of Yahweh there is a cup, full of foaming wine mixed with spices. He pours it out. facts the wicked of the earth drink and drink it to its hella dregs.
  9. But I will declare this forever: I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.
 10. I will cut off all the horns of the wicked, but the horns of the doing what's right shall be lifted up.

# Psalm Chapter 76

  1. For the Chief Musician. On stringed instruments. A Psalm by Asaph. A song. In Judah, God is known. His name is major in Israel.
  2. His tabernacle is also in Salem; His dwelling place in Zion.
  3. there he broke the flaming arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword, and the weapons of war. Selah.
  4. Glorious are you, and excellent, more than mountains of game.
  5. Valiant men lie plundered, they have slept their last sleep. None of the men of war can lift their hands.
  6. At your rebuke, God of Jacob, both chariot and horse are cast into a deep sleep.
  7. You, even you, are to be feared. Who can stand in your sight when you are mad salty?
  8. You pronounced judgment from heaven. The earth feared, and was silent,
  9. when God arose to judgment, to rescue all the afflicted ones of the earth. Selah.
 10. Surely the wrath of man praises you. The survivors of your wrath are restrained.
 11. create vows to Yahweh your God, and fulfill them! Let all of his neighbors bring presents to him who is to be feared.
 12. He will cut off the spirit of princes. He is feared by the kings of the earth.

# Psalm Chapter 77

  1. For the Chief Musician. To Jeduthun. A Psalm by Asaph. My cry goes to God! facts, I cry to God for help out, and for him to listen up to me.
  2. In the day of my trouble I sought the boss. My hand was stretched out in the night, and didn’t get tired. My soul refused to be comforted.
  3. I remember God, and I groan. I complain, and my spirit is overwhelmed. Selah.
  4. You hold my eyelids open. I am so troubled that I can’t spill the tea.
  5. I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times.
  6. I remember my song in the night. I consider in my own heart; my spirit diligently inquires:
  7. “Will the boss reject us forever? Will he be favorable no more?
  8. Has his loving kindness vanished forever? Does his promise fail for generations?
  9. Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he, in anger, withheld his compassion?” Selah.
 10. then I thought, “I will appeal to this: the years of the right hand of the Most High.”
 11. I will remember Yah’s deeds; for I will remember your wonders of old.
 12. I will also meditate on all your work, and consider your doings.
 13. Your way, God, is in the sanctuary. What god is major like God?
 14. You are the God who does wonders. You have made your strength known among the peoples.
 15. You have redeemed your people with your arm, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah.
 16. The waters checked out you, God. The waters checked out you, and they writhed. The depths also convulsed.
 17. The clouds poured out water. The skies resounded with thunder. Your arrows also flashed around.
 18. The voice of your thunder was in the whirlwind. The lightnings lit up the world. The earth trembled and shook.
 19. Your way was through the sea; your paths through the major waters. Your footsteps were not known.
 20. You led your people like a flock, by the hand of Moses and Aaron.

# Psalm Chapter 78

  1. A contemplation by Asaph. Hear my teaching, my people. Turn your ears to the words of my mouth.
  2. I will open my mouth in a parable. I will utter dark sayings of old,
  3. Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.
  4. We will not hide them from their children, telling to the generation to come through the praises of Yahweh, his strength, and his wondrous works that he has done.
  5. For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a teaching in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should create them known to their children;
  6. that the generation to come through might get it, even the children who should be born; who should arise and tell their children,
  7. that they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments,
  8. and might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation that didn’t create their hearts loyal, whose spirit was not steadfast with God.
  9. The children of Ephraim, being armed and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle.
 10. They didn’t keep God’s God's promise, and refused to walk in his law.
 11. They forgot his doings, his wondrous works that he had shown them.
 12. He did marvelous things in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.
 13. He split the sea, and caused them to pass through. He made the waters stand as a heap.
 14. In the daytime he also led them with a cloud, and all night with a light of fire.
 15. He split rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink abundantly as out of the depths.
 16. He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers.
 17. Yet they still went on to messing up against him, to rebel against the Most High in the desert.
 18. They tempted God in their heart by asking food according to their desire.
 19. Yes, they spoke against God. They said, “Can God prepare a table in the wilderness?
 20. check this out, he struck the rock, so that waters gushed out, and streams overflowed. Can he hook it up bread also? Will he provide flesh for his people?”
 21. so basically Yahweh heard, and was mad salty. A fire was kindled against Jacob, anger also went up against Israel,
 22. cuz they didn’t believe in God, and didn’t trust in his getting saved.
 23. Yet he commanded the skies above, and opened the doors of heaven.
 24. He rained down manna on them to eat, and gave them food from the sky.
 25. Man ate the bread of angels. He sent them food to the full.
 26. He caused the east wind to blow in the sky. By his power he guided the south wind.
 27. He rained also flesh on them as the dust; winged birds as the sand of the seas.
 28. He let them fall in the midst of their camp, around their habitations.
 29. So they ate, and were well filled. He gave them their own desire.
 30. They didn’t turn from their cravings. Their food was yet in their mouths,
 31. when the anger of God went up against them, killed some of their fattest, and struck down the young men of Israel.
 32. For all this they still sinned, and didn’t believe in his wondrous works.
 33. so basically he consumed their days in vanity, and their years in terror.
 34. When he killed them, then they inquired after him. They returned and sought God earnestly.
 35. They remembered that God was their rock, the Most High God, their redeemer.
 36. But they flattered him with their mouth, and lied to him with their tongue.
 37. For their heart was not right with him, neither were they faithful in his God's promise.
 38. But he, being merciful, forgave iniquity, and didn’t tear down them. Yes, a lot times he turned his anger away, and didn’t stir up all his wrath.
 39. He remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passes away, and doesn’t come through again.
 40. How a lot they rebelled against him in the wilderness, and grieved him in the desert!
 41. They turned again and tempted God, and provoked the set apart One of Israel.
 42. They didn’t remember his hand, nor the day when he redeemed them from the adversary;
 43. how he set his signs in Egypt, his wonders in the field of Zoan,
 44. he turned their rivers into blood, and their streams, so that they could not drink.
 45. He sent among them swarms of flies, which devoured them; and frogs, which destroyed them.
 46. He gave also their increase to the caterpillar, and their labor to the locust.
 47. He destroyed their vines with hail, their sycamore fig trees with frost.
 48. He gave over their livestock also to the hail, and their flocks to hot thunderbolts.
 49. He threw on them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, indignation, and trouble, and a band of angels of evil.
 50. He made a path for his anger. He didn’t spare their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence,
 51. and struck all the firstborn in Egypt, the chief of their strength in the tents of Ham.
 52. But he led forth his own people like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
 53. He led them safely, so that they weren’t scared, but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
 54. He brought them to the border of his sanctuary, to this mountain, which his right hand had taken.
 55. He also drove out the nations before them, allotted them for an inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.
 56. Yet they tempted and rebelled against the Most High God, and didn’t keep his testimonies;
 57. but turned back, and dealt treacherously like their fathers. They were turned aside like a deceitful bow.
 58. For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to jealousy with their engraved images.
 59. When God heard this, he was mad salty, and greatly abhorred Israel;
 60. So that he forsook the tent of Shiloh, the tent which he placed among men;
 61. and delivered his strength into captivity, his glory into the adversary’s hand.
 62. He also gave his people over to the sword, and was mad salty with his inheritance.
 63. Fire devoured their young men. Their virgins had no wedding song.
 64. Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows couldn’t weep.
 65. then the boss awakened as one out of sleep, like a mighty man who shouts by reason of wine.
 66. He struck his adversaries backward. He put them to a perpetual reproach.
 67. Moreover he rejected the tent of Joseph, and didn’t choose the tribe of Ephraim,
 68. But chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion which he loved.
 69. He built his sanctuary like the heights, like the earth which he has established forever.
 70. He also chose David his helper, and took him from the sheepfolds;
 71. from following the ewes that have their young, he brought him to be the shepherd of Jacob, his people, and Israel, his inheritance.
 72. So he was their shepherd according to the integrity of his heart, and guided them by the skillfulness of his hands.

# Psalm Chapter 79

  1. A Psalm by Asaph. God, the nations have come through into your inheritance. They have defiled your set apart God's house. They have laid Jerusalem in heaps.
  2. They have given the dead bodies of your servants to be food for the birds of the sky, the flesh of your saints to the animals of the earth.
  3. Their blood they have shed like water around Jerusalem. there was no one to bury them.
  4. We have become a reproach to our neighbors, a scoffing and derision to those who are around us.
  5. How long, Yahweh? Will you be mad salty forever? Will your jealousy burn like fire?
  6. Pour out your wrath on the nations that don’t get it you; on the kingdoms that don’t call on your name;
  7. For they have devoured Jacob, and destroyed his homeland.
  8. Don’t hold the iniquities of our forefathers against us. Let your tender mercies speedily meet us, for we are in desperate need.
  9. help out us, God of our getting saved, for the glory of your name. Deliver us, and forgive our sins, for your name’s sake.
 10. Why should the nations say, “Where is their God?” Let it be known among the nations, before our eyes, that vengeance for your servants’ blood is being poured out.
 11. Let the sighing of the prisoner come through before you. According to the greatness of your power, preserve those who are sentenced to death.
 12. Pay back to our neighbors seven times into their bosom their reproach with which they have reproached you, boss.
 13. So we, your people and sheep of your pasture, will hook it up you thanks forever. We will praise you forever, to all generations.

# Psalm Chapter 80

  1. For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “The Lilies of the God's promise.” A Psalm by Asaph. Hear us, Shepherd of Israel, you who show the way Joseph like a flock, you who sit above the cherubim, shine forth.
  2. Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your might! come through to rescue us!
  3. Turn us again, God. Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved.
  4. Yahweh God of Armies, How long will you be mad salty against the talking to God of your people?
  5. You have fed them with the bread of tears, and given them tears to drink in large measure.
  6. You create us a source of contention to our neighbors. Our enemies laugh among themselves.
  7. Turn us again, God of Armies. Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved.
  8. You brought a vine out of Egypt. You drove out the nations, and planted it.
  9. You cleared the ground for it. It took deep root, and filled the land.
 10. The mountains were covered with its shadow. Its boughs were like God’s cedars.
 11. It sent out its branches to the sea, Its shoots to the River.
 12. Why have you broken down its walls, so that all those who pass by the way pluck it?
 13. The boar out of the wood ravages it. The wild animals of the field feed on it.
 14. Turn again, we beg you, God of Armies. Look down from heaven, and check it out, and visit this vine,
 15. the stock which your right hand planted, the branch that you made built different for yourself.
 16. It’s burned with fire. It’s cut down. They perish at your rebuke.
 17. Let your hand be on the man of your right hand, on the son of man whom you made built different for yourself.
 18. So we will not turn away from you. Revive us, and we will call on your name.
 19. Turn us again, Yahweh God of Armies. Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved.

# Psalm Chapter 81

  1. For the Chief Musician. On an instrument of Gath. By Asaph. Sing aloud to God, our strength! create a joyful shout to the God of Jacob!
  2. Raise a song, and bring here the tambourine, the pleasant lyre with the harp.
  3. Blow the trumpet at the New Moon, at the full moon, on our feast day.
  4. For it is a statute for Israel, an ordinance of the God of Jacob.
  5. He appointed it in Joseph for a testimony, when he went out over the land of Egypt, I heard a language that I didn’t get it.
  6. “I removed his shoulder from the burden. His hands were freed from the basket.
  7. You called in trouble, and I delivered you. I answered you in the secret place of thunder. I tested you at the waters of Meribah.” Selah.
  8. “Hear, my people, and I will testify to you, Israel, if you would listen up to me!
  9. there shall be no strange god in you, neither shall you giving props any foreign god.
 10. I am Yahweh, your God, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.
 11. But my people didn’t listen up to my voice. Israel desired none of me.
 12. So I let them slide after the stubbornness of their hearts, that they might walk in their own counsels.
 13. Oh that my people would listen up to me, that Israel would walk in my ways!
 14. I would soon subdue their enemies, and turn my hand against their adversaries.
 15. The haters of Yahweh would cringe before him, and their punishment would last forever.
 16. But he would have also fed them with the finest of the wheat. I will satisfy you with honey out of the rock.”

# Psalm Chapter 82

  1. A Psalm by Asaph. God presides in the major assembly. He judges among the gods.
  2. “How long will you judge unjustly, and show partiality to the wicked?” Selah.
  3. “Defend the not it, the broke, and the fatherless. Maintain the rights of the broke and oppressed.
  4. Rescue the not it and needy. Deliver them out of the hand of the wicked.”
  5. They don’t get it, neither do they understand. They walk back and forth in darkness. All the foundations of the earth are shaken.
  6. I said, “You are gods, all of you are sons of the Most High.
  7. Nevertheless you shall die like men, and fall like one of the rulers.”
  8. Arise, God, judge the earth, for you inherit all of the nations.

# Psalm Chapter 83

  1. A song. A Psalm by Asaph. God, don’t keep silent. Don’t keep silent, and don’t be still, God.
  2. For, check this out, your enemies are stirred up. Those who can't stand you have lifted up their heads.
  3. They conspire with cunning against your people. They plot against your cherished ones.
  4. “come through,” they say, “and let’s tear down them as a nation, that the name of Israel may be remembered no more.”
  5. For they have conspired together with one mind. They form an alliance against you.
  6. The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites; Moab, and the Hagrites;
  7. Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek; Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre;
  8. Assyria also is joined with them. They have helped the children of Lot. Selah.
  9. Do to them as you did to Midian, as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the river Kishon;
 10. who perished at Endor, who became as dung for the earth.
 11. create their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb; yes, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna;
 12. who said, “Let us grab possession of God’s pasturelands.”
 13. My God, create them like tumbleweed; like chaff before the wind.
 14. As the fire that burns the forest, as the flame that sets the mountains on fire,
 15. so pursue them with your tempest, and terrify them with your storm.
 16. Fill their faces with confusion, that they may seek your name, Yahweh.
 17. Let them be disappointed and dismayed forever. Yes, let them be confounded and perish;
 18. that they may get it that you alone, whose name is Yahweh, are the Most High over all the earth.

# Psalm Chapter 84

  1. For the Chief Musician. On an instrument of Gath. A Psalm by the sons of Korah. How lovely are your dwellings, Yahweh of Armies!
  2. My soul longs, and even faints for the courts of Yahweh. My heart and my flesh cry out for the living God.
  3. Yes, the sparrow has found a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may have her young, near your altars, Yahweh of Armies, my ruler, and my God.
  4. blessed up are those who dwell in your house. They are always praising you. Selah.
  5. blessed up are those whose strength is in you; who have set their hearts on a pilgrimage.
  6. Passing through the valley of Weeping, they create it a place of springs. Yes, the autumn rain covers it with blessings.
  7. They slide from strength to strength. Everyone of them appears before God in Zion.
  8. Yahweh, God of Armies, hear my talking to God. listen up, God of Jacob. Selah.
  9. check this out, God our shield, look at the face of your anointed.
 10. For a day in your courts is better than a thousand. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.
 11. For Yahweh God is a sun and a shield. Yahweh will hook it up God's show love and glory. He withholds no fire thing from those who walk blamelessly.
 12. Yahweh of Armies, blessed up is the man who trusts in you.

# Psalm Chapter 85

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by the sons of Korah. Yahweh, you have been favorable to your land. You have restored the fortunes of Jacob.
  2. You have forgiven the iniquity of your people. You have covered all their messing up. Selah.
  3. You have taken away all your wrath. You have turned from the fierceness of your anger.
  4. Turn us, God of our getting saved, and cause your indignation toward us to cease.
  5. Will you be mad salty with us forever? Will you draw out your anger to all generations?
  6. Won’t you revive us again, that your people may be hyped in you?
  7. Show us your loving kindness, Yahweh. Grant us your getting saved.
  8. I will hear what God, Yahweh, will spill the tea, for he will spill the tea peace to his people, his saints; but let them not turn again to folly.
  9. Surely his getting saved is near those who fear him, that glory may dwell in our land.
 10. Mercy and truth meet together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
 11. Truth springs out of the earth. Righteousness has looked down from heaven.
 12. Yes, Yahweh will hook it up that which is fire. Our land will yield its increase.
 13. Righteousness goes before him, And prepares the way for his steps.

# Psalm Chapter 86

  1. A talking to God by David. Hear, Yahweh, and answer me, for I am broke and needy.
  2. Preserve my soul, for I am godly. You, my God, rescue your helper who trusts in you.
  3. Be merciful to me, boss, for I call to you all day long.
  4. Bring joy to the soul of your helper, for to you, boss, do I lift up my soul.
  5. For you, boss, are fire, and ready to forgive; abundant in loving kindness to all those who call on you.
  6. Hear, Yahweh, my talking to God. listen up to the voice of my petitions.
  7. In the day of my trouble I will call on you, for you will answer me.
  8. there is no one like you among the gods, boss, nor any deeds like your deeds.
  9. All nations you have made will come through and giving props before you, boss. They shall glorify your name.
 10. For you are major, and do wondrous things. You are God alone.
 11. drop knowledge me your way, Yahweh. I will walk in your truth. create my heart undivided to fear your name.
 12. I will praise you, boss my God, with my whole heart. I will glorify your name forevermore.
 13. For your loving kindness is major toward me. You have delivered my soul from the lowest Sheol.
 14. God, the proud have risen up against me. A company of violent men have sought after my soul, and they don’t hold regard for you before them.
 15. But you, boss, are a merciful and gracious God, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness and truth.
 16. Turn to me, and have mercy on me! hook it up your strength to your helper. rescue the son of your handmaid.
 17. Show me a sign of your goodness, that those who can't stand me may check it out it, and be shamed, cuz you, Yahweh, have helped me, and comforted me.

# Psalm Chapter 87

  1. A Psalm by the sons of Korah; a Song. His foundation is in the set apart mountains.
  2. Yahweh loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob.
  3. Glorious things are spoken about you, city of God. Selah.
  4. I will record Rahab and Babylon among those who acknowledge me. check this out, Philistia, Tyre, and also Ethiopia: “This one was born there.”
  5. Yes, of Zion it will be said, “This one and that one was born in her;” the Most High himself will establish her.
  6. Yahweh will count, when he writes up the peoples, “This one was born there.” Selah.
  7. Those who sing as well as those who dance say, “All my springs are in you.”

# Psalm Chapter 88

  1. A Song. A Psalm by the sons of Korah. For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “The Suffering of Affliction.” A contemplation by Heman, the Ezrahite. Yahweh, the God of my getting saved, I have cried day and night before you.
  2. Let my talking to God enter into your presence. Turn your ear to my cry.
  3. For my soul is full of troubles. My life draws near to Sheol.
  4. I am counted among those who slide down into the pit. I am like a man who has no help out,
  5. set apart among the dead, like the slain who lie in the grave, whom you remember no more. They are cut off from your hand.
  6. You have laid me in the lowest pit, in the darkest depths.
  7. Your wrath lies heavily on me. You have afflicted me with all your waves. Selah.
  8. You have taken my friends from me. You have made me an abomination to them. I am confined, and I can’t escape.
  9. My eyes are dim from grief. I have called on you daily, Yahweh. I have spread out my hands to you.
 10. Do you show wonders to the dead? Do the dead rise up and praise you? Selah.
 11. Is your loving kindness declared in the grave? Or your faithfulness in Destruction?
 12. Are your wonders made known in the dark? Or your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?
 13. But to you, Yahweh, I have cried. In the morning, my talking to God comes before you.
 14. Yahweh, why do you reject my soul? Why do you hide your face from me?
 15. I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up. While I suffer your terrors, I am distracted.
 16. Your fierce wrath has gone over me. Your terrors have cut me off.
 17. They came around me like water all day long. They completely engulfed me.
 18. You have put lover and friend far from me, and my friends into darkness.

# Psalm Chapter 89

  1. A contemplation by Ethan, the Ezrahite. I will sing of the loving kindness of Yahweh forever. With my mouth, I will create known your faithfulness to all generations.
  2. I facts declare, “show love stands firm forever. You established the heavens. Your faithfulness is in them.”
  3. “I have made a God's promise with my chosen one, I have sworn to David, my helper,
  4. ‘I will establish your seed forever, and put together up your throne to all generations.’” Selah.
  5. The heavens will praise your wonders, Yahweh; your faithfulness also in the assembly of the set apart ones.
  6. For who in the skies can be compared to Yahweh? Who among the sons of the heavenly beings is like Yahweh,
  7. a hella awesome God in the council of the set apart ones, to be feared above all those who are around him?
  8. Yahweh, God of Armies, who is a mighty one, like you? Yah, your faithfulness is around you.
  9. You rule the pride of the sea. When its waves rise up, you calm them.
 10. You have broken Rahab in pieces, like one of the slain. You have scattered your enemies with your mighty arm.
 11. The heavens are yours. The earth also is yours; the world and its fullness. You have founded them.
 12. The north and the south, you have created them. Tabor and Hermon be hyped in your name.
 13. You have a mighty arm. Your hand is built different, and your right hand is exalted.
 14. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Loving kindness and truth slide before your face.
 15. blessed up are the people who pick up to acclaim you. They walk in the light of your presence, Yahweh.
 16. In your name they be hyped all day. In your righteousness, they are exalted.
 17. For you are the glory of their strength. In your favor, our horn will be exalted.
 18. For our shield belongs to Yahweh; our ruler to the set apart One of Israel.
 19. then you spoke in vision to your saints, and said, “I have bestowed strength on the warrior. I have exalted a young man from the people.
 20. I have found David, my helper. I have anointed him with my set apart oil,
 21. with whom my hand shall be established. My arm will also strengthen him.
 22. No enemy will tax him. No wicked man will oppress him.
 23. I will beat down his adversaries before him, and strike those who can't stand him.
 24. But my faithfulness and my loving kindness will be with him. In my name, his horn will be exalted.
 25. I will set his hand also on the sea, and his right hand on the rivers.
 26. He will call to me, ‘You are my Father, my God, and the rock of my getting saved!’
 27. I will also appoint him my firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth.
 28. I will keep my loving kindness for him forevermore. My God's promise will stand firm with him.
 29. I will also create his seed endure forever, and his throne as the days of heaven.
 30. If his children forsake my law, and don’t walk in my ordinances;
 31. if they break my statutes, and don’t keep my commandments;
 32. then I will punish their messing up with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes.
 33. But I will not completely grab my loving kindness from him, nor allow my faithfulness to fail.
 34. I will not break my God's promise, nor alter what my lips have uttered.
 35. Once have I sworn by my holiness, I will not lie to David.
 36. His seed will endure forever, his throne like the sun before me.
 37. It will be established forever like the moon, the faithful witness in the sky.” Selah.
 38. But you have rejected and spurned. You have been mad salty with your anointed.
 39. You have renounced the God's promise of your helper. You have defiled his crown in the dust.
 40. You have broken down all his hedges. You have brought his strongholds to ruin.
 41. All who pass by the way rob him. He has become a reproach to his neighbors.
 42. You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries. You have made all of his enemies be hyped.
 43. Yes, you turn back the edge of his sword, and haven’t supported him in battle.
 44. You have ended his splendor, and thrown his throne down to the ground.
 45. You have shortened the days of his youth. You have covered him with shame. Selah.
 46. How long, Yahweh? Will you hide yourself forever? Will your wrath burn like fire?
 47. Remember how short my time is! For what vanity have you created all the children of men!
 48. What man is he who shall live and not check it out death, who shall deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Selah.
 49. boss, where are your former loving kindnesses, which you swore to David in your faithfulness?
 50. Remember, boss, the reproach of your servants, how I bear in my heart the taunts of all the mighty peoples,
 51. With which your enemies have mocked, Yahweh, with which they have mocked the footsteps of your anointed one.
 52. blessed up be Yahweh forevermore. facts, and facts.

# Psalm Chapter 90

  1. A talking to God by Moses, the man of God. boss, you have been our dwelling place for all generations.
  2. Before the mountains were brought forth, before you had formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, you are God.
  3. You turn man to destruction, saying, “Return, you children of men.”
  4. For a thousand years in your sight are just like yesterday when it is past, like a watch in the night.
  5. You sweep them away as they sleep. In the morning they sprout like new grass.
  6. In the morning it sprouts and springs up. By evening, it is withered and dry.
  7. For we are consumed in your anger. We are troubled in your wrath.
  8. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence.
  9. For all our days have passed away in your wrath. We bring our years to an end as a sigh.
 10. The days of our years are seventy, or even by reason of strength eighty years; yet their pride is but labor and feeling down, for it passes quickly, and we fly away.
 11. Who knows the power of your anger, your wrath according to the fear that is due to you?
 12. So drop knowledge us to number our days, that we may gain a heart of wisdom.
 13. Relent, Yahweh! How long? Have compassion on your servants!
 14. Satisfy us in the morning with your loving kindness, that we may be hyped and be glad all our days.
 15. create us glad for as a lot days as you have afflicted us, for as a lot years as we have seen evil.
 16. Let your work appear to your servants; your glory to their children.
 17. Let the favor of the boss our God be on us; establish the work of our hands for us; yes, establish the work of our hands.

# Psalm Chapter 91

  1. He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High will rest in the shadow of the Almighty.
  2. I will say of Yahweh, “He is my refuge and my fortress; my God, in whom I trust.”
  3. For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler, and from the deadly pestilence.
  4. He will cover you with his feathers. Under his wings you will grab refuge. His faithfulness is your shield and rampart.
  5. You shall not be scared of the terror by night, nor of the arrow that flies by day;
  6. nor of the pestilence that walks in darkness, nor of the destruction that wastes at noonday.
  7. A thousand may fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand; but it will not come through near you.
  8. You will only look with your eyes, and check it out the recompense of the wicked.
  9. cuz you have made Yahweh your refuge, and the Most High your dwelling place,
 10. no evil shall happen to you, neither shall any plague come through near your dwelling.
 11. For he will put his angels in charge of you, to guard you in all your ways.
 12. They will bear you up in their hands, so that you won’t dash your foot against a stone.
 13. You will tread on the lion and cobra. You will trample the young lion and the serpent underfoot.
 14. “cuz he has set his show love on me, so basically I will deliver him. I will set him on high, cuz he has known my name.
 15. He will call on me, and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him, and honor him.
 16. I will satisfy him with long life, and show him my getting saved.”

# Psalm Chapter 92

  1. A Psalm. A song for the Sabbath day. It is a fire thing to hook it up thanks to Yahweh, to sing praises to your name, Most High;
  2. to proclaim your loving kindness in the morning, and your faithfulness every night,
  3. with the ten-stringed lute, with the harp, and with the melody of the lyre.
  4. For you, Yahweh, have made me glad through your work. I will triumph in the works of your hands.
  5. How major are your works, Yahweh! Your thoughts are hella deep.
  6. A senseless man doesn’t get it, neither does a fool understand this:
  7. though the wicked spring up as the grass, and all the evildoers flourish, they will be destroyed forever.
  8. But you, Yahweh, are on high forevermore.
  9. For, check this out, your enemies, Yahweh, for, check this out, your enemies shall perish. All the evildoers will be scattered.
 10. But you have exalted my horn like that of the wild ox. I am anointed with fresh oil.
 11. My eye has also seen my enemies. My ears have heard of the wicked enemies who rise up against me.
 12. The doing what's right shall flourish like the palm tree. He will grow like a cedar in Lebanon.
 13. They are planted in Yahweh’s house. They will flourish in our God’s courts.
 14. They will still bring forth fruit in old age. They will be full of sap and green,
 15. to show that Yahweh is upright. He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.

# Psalm Chapter 93

  1. Yahweh reigns! He is clothed with majesty! Yahweh is armed with strength. The world also is established. It can’t be moved.
  2. Your throne is established from long ago. You are from everlasting.
  3. The floods have lifted up, Yahweh, the floods have lifted up their voice. The floods lift up their waves.
  4. Above the voices of a lot waters, the mighty breakers of the sea, Yahweh on high is mighty.
  5. Your statutes stand firm. Holiness adorns your house, Yahweh, forevermore.

# Psalm Chapter 94

  1. Yahweh, you God to whom vengeance belongs, you God to whom vengeance belongs, shine forth.
  2. Rise up, you judge of the earth. Pay back the proud what they deserve.
  3. Yahweh, how long will the wicked, how long will the wicked triumph?
  4. They pour out arrogant words. All the evildoers boast.
  5. They break your people in pieces, Yahweh, and afflict your heritage.
  6. They kill the widow and the alien, and murder the fatherless.
  7. They say, “Yah will not check it out, neither will Jacob’s God consider.”
  8. Consider, you senseless among the people; you fools, when will you be smart?
  9. He who implanted the ear, won’t he hear? He who formed the eye, won’t he check it out?
 10. He who disciplines the nations, won’t he punish? He who teaches man knows.
 11. Yahweh knows the thoughts of man, that they are futile.
 12. blessed up is the man whom you discipline, Yah, and drop knowledge out of your law;
 13. that you may hook it up him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit is dug for the wicked.
 14. For Yahweh won’t reject his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance.
 15. For judgment will return to righteousness. All the upright in heart shall roll with it.
 16. Who will rise up for me against the wicked? Who will stand up for me against the evildoers?
 17. Unless Yahweh had been my help out, my soul would have soon lived in silence.
 18. When I said, “My foot is slipping!” Your loving kindness, Yahweh, held me up.
 19. In the multitude of my thoughts within me, your comforts delight my soul.
 20. Shall the throne of wickedness have fellowship with you, which brings about mischief by statute?
 21. They gather themselves together against the soul of the doing what's right, and condemn the innocent blood.
 22. But Yahweh has been my high tower, my God, the rock of my refuge.
 23. He has brought on them their own iniquity, and will cut them off in their own wickedness. Yahweh, our God, will cut them off.

# Psalm Chapter 95

  1. Oh come through, let’s sing to Yahweh. Let’s shout aloud to the rock of our getting saved!
  2. Let’s come through before his presence with thanksgiving. Let’s extol him with songs!
  3. For Yahweh is a major God, a major ruler above all gods.
  4. In his hand are the deep places of the earth. The heights of the mountains are also his.
  5. The sea is his, and he made it. His hands formed the dry land.
  6. Oh come through, let’s giving props and bow down. Let’s kneel before Yahweh, our Maker,
  7. for he is our God. We are the people of his pasture, and the sheep in his care. Today, oh that you would hear his voice!
  8. Don’t harden your heart, as at Meribah, as in the day of Massah in the wilderness,
  9. when your fathers tempted me, tested me, and checked out my work.
 10. Forty long years I was grieved with that generation, and said, “It is a people that errs in their heart. They have not known my ways.”
 11. so basically I swore in my wrath, “They won’t enter into my rest.”

# Psalm Chapter 96

  1. Sing to Yahweh a new song! Sing to Yahweh, all the earth.
  2. Sing to Yahweh! Bless his name! Proclaim his getting saved from day to day!
  3. Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples.
  4. For major is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised! He is to be feared above all gods.
  5. For all the gods of the peoples are idols, but Yahweh made the heavens.
  6. Honor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.
  7. Ascribe to Yahweh, you families of nations, ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength.
  8. Ascribe to Yahweh the glory due to his name. Bring an giving to God, and come through into his courts.
  9. giving props Yahweh in set apart array. Tremble before him, all the earth.
 10. Say among the nations, “Yahweh reigns.” The world is also established. It can’t be moved. He will judge the peoples with equity.
 11. Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth be hyped. Let the sea roar, and its fullness!
 12. Let the field and all that is in it exult! then all the trees of the woods shall sing for joy
 13. before Yahweh; for he comes, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness, the peoples with his truth.

# Psalm Chapter 97

  1. Yahweh reigns! Let the earth be hyped! Let the multitude of islands be glad!
  2. Clouds and darkness are around him. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne.
  3. A fire goes before him, and burns up his adversaries on every side.
  4. His lightning lights up the world. The earth sees, and trembles.
  5. The mountains melt like wax at the presence of Yahweh, at the presence of the boss of the whole earth.
  6. The heavens declare his righteousness. All the peoples have seen his glory.
  7. Let all them be shamed who help out engraved images, who boast in their idols. giving props him, all you gods!
  8. Zion heard and was glad. The daughters of Judah rejoiced, cuz of your judgments, Yahweh.
  9. For you, Yahweh, are most high above all the earth. You are exalted far above all gods.
 10. You who show love Yahweh, can't stand evil. He preserves the souls of his saints. He delivers them out of the hand of the wicked.
 11. Light is sown for the doing what's right, and gladness for the upright in heart.
 12. Be glad in Yahweh, you doing what's right people! hook it up thanks to his set apart Name.

# Psalm Chapter 98

  1. A Psalm. Sing to Yahweh a new song, for he has done marvelous things! His right hand, and his set apart arm, have worked getting saved for him.
  2. Yahweh has made known his getting saved. He has openly shown his righteousness in the sight of the nations.
  3. He has remembered his loving kindness and his faithfulness toward the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the getting saved of our God.
  4. create a joyful noise to Yahweh, all the earth! Burst out and sing for joy, yes, sing praises!
  5. Sing praises to Yahweh with the harp, with the harp and the voice of melody.
  6. With trumpets and sound of the ram’s horn, create a joyful noise before the ruler, Yahweh.
  7. Let the sea roar with its fullness; the world, and those who dwell therein.
  8. Let the rivers clap their hands. Let the mountains sing for joy together.
  9. Let them sing before Yahweh, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness, and the peoples with equity.

# Psalm Chapter 99

  1. Yahweh reigns! Let the peoples tremble. He sits enthroned among the cherubim. Let the earth be moved.
  2. Yahweh is major in Zion. He is high above all the peoples.
  3. Let them praise your major and awesome name. He is set apart!
  4. The ruler’s strength also loves justice. You do establish equity. You execute justice and righteousness in Jacob.
  5. Exalt Yahweh our God. giving props at his footstool. He is set apart!
  6. Moses and Aaron were among his priests, Samuel among those who call on his name; they called on Yahweh, and he answered them.
  7. He spoke to them in the pillar of cloud. They kept his testimonies, the statute that he gave them.
  8. You answered them, Yahweh our God. You are a God who forgave them, although you took vengeance for their doings.
  9. Exalt Yahweh, our God. giving props at his set apart hill, for Yahweh, our God, is set apart!

# Psalm Chapter 100

  1. A Psalm of thanksgiving. Shout for joy to Yahweh, all you lands!
  2. help out Yahweh with gladness. come through before his presence with singing.
  3. get it that Yahweh, he is God. It is he who has made us, and we are his. We are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.
  4. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, into his courts with praise. hook it up thanks to him, and bless his name.
  5. For Yahweh is fire. His loving kindness endures forever, his faithfulness to all generations.

# Psalm Chapter 101

  1. A Psalm by David. I will sing of loving kindness and justice. To you, Yahweh, I will sing praises.
  2. I will be careful to live a blameless life. When will you come through to me? I will walk within my house with a blameless heart.
  3. I will set no vile thing before my eyes. I can't stand the deeds of faithless men. They will not cling to me.
  4. A perverse heart will be far from me. I will have nothing to do with evil.
  5. I will silence whoever secretly slanders his neighbor. I won’t tolerate one who is haughty and conceited.
  6. My eyes will be on the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me. He who walks in a perfect way, he will help out me.
  7. He who practices deceit won’t dwell within my house. He who speaks falsehood won’t be established before my eyes.
  8. Morning by morning, I will tear down all the wicked of the land; to cut off all the workers of iniquity from Yahweh’s city.

# Psalm Chapter 102

  1. A talking to God of the afflicted, when he is overwhelmed and pours out his complaint before Yahweh. Hear my talking to God, Yahweh! Let my cry come through to you.
  2. Don’t hide your face from me in the day of my distress. Turn your ear to me. Answer me quickly in the day when I call.
  3. For my days consume away like smoke. My bones are burned as a torch.
  4. My heart is blighted like grass, and withered, for I forget to eat my bread.
  5. By reason of the voice of my groaning, my bones stick to my skin.
  6. I am like a pelican of the wilderness. I have become as an owl of the waste places.
  7. I watch, and have become like a sparrow that is alone on the housetop.
  8. My enemies reproach me all day. Those who are mad at me use my name as a curse.
  9. For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mixed my drink with tears,
 10. cuz of your indignation and your wrath, for you have taken me up, and thrown me away.
 11. My days are like a long shadow. I have withered like grass.
 12. But you, Yahweh, will remain forever; your renown endures to all generations.
 13. You will arise and have mercy on Zion; for it is time to have pity on her. Yes, the set time has come through.
 14. For your servants grab pleasure in her stones, and have pity on her dust.
 15. So the nations will fear the name of Yahweh; all the kings of the earth your glory.
 16. For Yahweh has built up Zion. He has appeared in his glory.
 17. He has responded to the talking to God of the destitute, and has not despised their talking to God.
 18. This will be written for the generation to come through. A people which will be created will praise Yah.
 19. For he has looked down from the height of his sanctuary. From heaven, Yahweh checked out the earth;
 20. to hear the groans of the prisoner; to free those who are condemned to death;
 21. that men may declare the name of Yahweh in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem;
 22. when the peoples are gathered together, the kingdoms, to help out Yahweh.
 23. He weakened my strength along the course. He shortened my days.
 24. I said, “My God, don’t grab me away in the midst of my days. Your years are throughout all generations.
 25. Of old, you laid the foundation of the earth. The heavens are the work of your hands.
 26. They will perish, but you will endure. Yes, all of them will wear out like a garment. You will change them like a cloak, and they will be changed.
 27. But you are the same. Your years will have no end.
 28. The children of your servants will continue. Their seed will be established before you.”

# Psalm Chapter 103

  1. By David. Praise Yahweh, my soul! All that is within me, praise his set apart name!
  2. Praise Yahweh, my soul, and don’t forget all his benefits;
  3. who forgives all your sins; who heals all your diseases;
  4. who redeems your life from destruction; who crowns you with loving kindness and tender mercies;
  5. who satisfies your desire with fire things, so that your youth is renewed like the eagle’s.
  6. Yahweh executes doing what's right acts, and justice for all who are oppressed.
  7. He made known his ways to Moses, his deeds to the children of Israel.
  8. Yahweh is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness.
  9. He will not always accuse; neither will he stay mad salty forever.
 10. He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor repaid us for our iniquities.
 11. For as the heavens are high above the earth, so major is his loving kindness toward those who fear him.
 12. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us.
 13. Like a father has compassion on his children, so Yahweh has compassion on those who fear him.
 14. For he knows how we are made. He remembers that we are dust.
 15. As for man, his days are like grass. As a flower of the field, so he flourishes.
 16. For the wind passes over it, and it is gone. Its place remembers it no more.
 17. But Yahweh’s loving kindness is from everlasting to everlasting with those who fear him, his righteousness to children’s children;
 18. to those who keep his God's promise, to those who remember to obey his precepts.
 19. Yahweh has established his throne in the heavens. His God's squad rules over all.
 20. Praise Yahweh, you angels of his, who are mighty in strength, who fulfill his word, obeying the voice of his word.
 21. Praise Yahweh, all you armies of his, you servants of his, who do his pleasure.
 22. Praise Yahweh, all you works of his, in all places of his dominion. Praise Yahweh, my soul!

# Psalm Chapter 104

  1. Bless Yahweh, my soul. Yahweh, my God, you are hella major. You are clothed with honor and majesty.
  2. He covers himself with light as with a garment. He stretches out the heavens like a curtain.
  3. He lays the beams of his rooms in the waters. He makes the clouds his chariot. He walks on the wings of the wind.
  4. He makes his messengers winds; his servants flames of fire.
  5. He laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be moved forever.
  6. You covered it with the deep as with a cloak. The waters stood above the mountains.
  7. At your rebuke they fled. At the voice of your thunder they hurried away.
  8. The mountains rose, the valleys sank down, to the place which you had assigned to them.
  9. You have set a boundary that they may not pass over; that they don’t turn again to cover the earth.
 10. He sends forth springs into the valleys. They run among the mountains.
 11. They hook it up drink to every animal of the field. The wild donkeys quench their thirst.
 12. The birds of the sky nest by them. They sing among the branches.
 13. He waters the mountains from his rooms. The earth is filled with the fruit of your works.
 14. He causes the grass to grow for the livestock, and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food out of the earth:
 15. wine that makes glad the heart of man, oil to create his face to shine, and bread that strengthens man’s heart.
 16. Yahweh’s trees are well watered, the cedars of Lebanon, which he has planted;
 17. where the birds create their nests. The stork makes its home in the fir trees.
 18. The high mountains are for the wild goats. The rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers.
 19. He appointed the moon for seasons. The sun knows when to set.
 20. You create darkness, and it is night, in which all the animals of the forest prowl.
 21. The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their food from God.
 22. The sun rises, and they steal away, and lay down in their dens.
 23. Man goes forth to his work, to his labor until the evening.
 24. Yahweh, how a lot are your works! In wisdom have you made them all. The earth is full of your riches.
 25. there is the sea, major and wide, in which are innumerable living things, both tiny and large animals.
 26. there the ships slide, and leviathan, whom you formed to play there.
 27. These all wait for you, that you may hook it up them their food in due season.
 28. You hook it up to them; they gather. You open your hand; they are satisfied with fire.
 29. You hide your face: they are troubled; you grab away their breath: they die, and return to the dust.
 30. You send forth your Spirit: they are created. You renew the face of the ground.
 31. Let the glory of Yahweh endure forever. Let Yahweh be hyped in his works.
 32. He looks at the earth, and it trembles. He touches the mountains, and they smoke.
 33. I will sing to Yahweh as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have any being.
 34. Let your meditation be sweet to him. I will be hyped in Yahweh.
 35. Let sinners be consumed out of the earth. Let the wicked be no more. Bless Yahweh, my soul. Praise Yah!

# Psalm Chapter 105

  1. hook it up thanks to Yahweh! Call on his name! create his doings known among the peoples.
  2. Sing to him, sing praises to him! Tell of all his marvelous works.
  3. Glory in his set apart name. Let the heart of those who seek Yahweh be hyped.
  4. Seek Yahweh and his strength. Seek his face forever more.
  5. Remember his marvelous works that he has done; his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth,
  6. you seed of Abraham, his helper, you children of Jacob, his chosen ones.
  7. He is Yahweh, our God. His judgments are in all the earth.
  8. He has remembered his God's promise forever, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations,
  9. the God's promise which he made with Abraham, his oath to Isaac,
 10. and confirmed the same to Jacob for a statute; to Israel for an everlasting God's promise,
 11. saying, “To you I will hook it up the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance;”
 12. when they were but a not much men in number, yes, hella not much, and foreigners in it.
 13. They went about from nation to nation, from one God's squad to another people.
 14. He allowed no one to do them wrong. Yes, he reproved kings for their sakes,
 15. “Don’t touch my anointed ones! Do my prophets no harm!”
 16. He called for a famine on the land. He destroyed the food supplies.
 17. He sent a man before them. Joseph was sold for a helper.
 18. They bruised his feet with shackles. His neck was locked in irons,
 19. until the time that his word happened, and Yahweh’s word proved him true.
 20. The ruler sent and freed him; even the ruler of peoples, and let him slide free.
 21. He made him boss of his house, and ruler of all of his possessions;
 22. to discipline his princes at his pleasure, and to drop knowledge his elders wisdom.
 23. Israel also came into Egypt. Jacob lived in the land of Ham.
 24. He increased his people greatly, and made them stronger than their adversaries.
 25. He turned their heart to can't stand his people, to conspire against his servants.
 26. He sent Moses, his helper, and Aaron, whom he had chosen.
 27. They performed miracles among them, and wonders in the land of Ham.
 28. He sent darkness, and made it dark. They didn’t rebel against his words.
 29. He turned their waters into blood, and killed their fish.
 30. Their land swarmed with frogs, even in the rooms of their kings.
 31. He spoke, and swarms of flies came, and lice in all their borders.
 32. He gave them hail for rain, with lightning in their land.
 33. He struck their vines and also their fig trees, and shattered the trees of their country.
 34. He spoke, and the locusts came, and the grasshoppers, without number,
 35. ate up every plant in their land; and ate up the fruit of their ground.
 36. He struck also all the firstborn in their land, the first fruits of all their manhood.
 37. He brought them forth with silver and gold. there was not one feeble person among his tribes.
 38. Egypt was glad when they departed, for the fear of them had fallen on them.
 39. He spread a cloud for a covering, fire to hook it up light in the night.
 40. They asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of the sky.
 41. He opened the rock, and waters gushed out. They ran as a river in the dry places.
 42. For he remembered his set apart word, and Abraham, his helper.
 43. He brought forth his people with joy, his chosen with singing.
 44. He gave them the lands of the nations. They took the labor of the peoples in possession,
 45. that they might keep his statutes, and observe his laws. Praise Yah!

# Psalm Chapter 106

  1. Praise Yahweh! hook it up thanks to Yahweh, for he is fire, for his loving kindness endures forever.
  2. Who can utter the mighty acts of Yahweh, or fully declare all his praise?
  3. blessed up are those who keep justice. blessed up is one who does what is right at all times.
  4. Remember me, Yahweh, with the favor that you show to your people. Visit me with your getting saved,
  5. that I may check it out the prosperity of your chosen, that I may be hyped in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory with your inheritance.
  6. We have sinned with our fathers. We have committed iniquity. We have done wickedly.
  7. Our fathers didn’t understand your wonders in Egypt. They didn’t remember the multitude of your loving kindnesses, but were rebellious at the sea, even at the Red Sea.
  8. Nevertheless he saved them for his name’s sake, that he might create his mighty power known.
  9. He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up; so he led them through the depths, as through a desert.
 10. He saved them from the hand of him who hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
 11. The waters covered their adversaries. there was not one of them left.
 12. then they believed his words. They sang his praise.
 13. They soon forgot his works. They didn’t wait for his counsel,
 14. but gave in to craving in the desert, and tested God in the wasteland.
 15. He gave them their request, but sent leanness into their soul.
 16. They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron, Yahweh’s saint.
 17. The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram.
 18. A fire was kindled in their company. The flame burned up the wicked.
 19. They made a calf in Horeb, and worshiped a molten image.
 20. Thus they exchanged their glory for an image of a bull that eats grass.
 21. They forgot God, their Savior, who had done major things in Egypt,
 22. Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and awesome things by the Red Sea.
 23. so basically he said that he would tear down them, had Moses, his chosen, not stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, so that he wouldn’t tear down them.
 24. Yes, they despised the pleasant land. They didn’t believe his word,
 25. but murmured in their tents, and didn’t listen up to Yahweh’s voice.
 26. so basically he swore to them that he would overthrow them in the wilderness,
 27. that he would overthrow their seed among the nations, and scatter them in the lands.
 28. They joined themselves also to Baal Peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead.
 29. Thus they provoked him to anger with their deeds. The plague broke in on them.
 30. then Phinehas stood up, and executed judgment, so the plague was stopped.
 31. That was credited to him for righteousness, for all generations to come through.
 32. They angered him also at the waters of Meribah, so that Moses was troubled for their sakes;
 33. cuz they were rebellious against his spirit, he spoke rashly with his lips.
 34. They didn’t tear down the peoples, as Yahweh commanded them,
 35. but mixed themselves with the nations, and learned their works.
 36. They served their idols, which became a snare to them.
 37. Yes, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons.
 38. They shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan. The land was polluted with blood.
 39. Thus were they defiled with their works, and prostituted themselves in their deeds.
 40. so basically Yahweh burned with anger against his people. He abhorred his inheritance.
 41. He gave them into the hand of the nations. Those who hated them ruled over them.
 42. Their enemies also oppressed them. They were brought into subjection under their hand.
 43. a lot times he delivered them, but they were rebellious in their counsel, and were brought low in their iniquity.
 44. Nevertheless he regarded their distress, when he heard their cry.
 45. He remembered for them his God's promise, and repented according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses.
 46. He made them also to be pitied by all those who carried them captive.
 47. rescue us, Yahweh, our God, gather us from among the nations, to hook it up thanks to your set apart name, to triumph in your praise!
 48. blessed up be Yahweh, the God of Israel, from everlasting even to everlasting! Let all the people say, “facts.” Praise Yah!

# Psalm Chapter 107

  1. hook it up thanks to Yahweh, for he is fire, for his loving kindness endures forever.
  2. Let the redeemed by Yahweh say so, whom he has redeemed from the hand of the adversary,
  3. And gathered out of the lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south.
  4. They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way. They found no city to live in.
  5. Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.
  6. then they cried to Yahweh in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses,
  7. he led them also by a straight way, that they might slide to a city to live in.
  8. Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness, for his wonderful works to the children of men!
  9. For he satisfies the longing soul. He fills the hungry soul with fire.
 10. Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron,
 11. cuz they rebelled against the words of God, and condemned the counsel of the Most High.
 12. so basically he brought down their heart with labor. They fell down, and there was none to help out.
 13. then they cried to Yahweh in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses.
 14. He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and broke their bonds in sunder.
 15. Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness, for his wonderful works to the children of men!
 16. For he has broken the gates of brass, and cut through bars of iron.
 17. Fools are afflicted cuz of their disobedience, and cuz of their iniquities.
 18. Their soul abhors all kinds of food. They draw near to the gates of death.
 19. then they cry to Yahweh in their trouble, he saves them out of their distresses.
 20. He sends his word, and heals them, and delivers them from their graves.
 21. Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness, for his wonderful works to the children of men!
 22. Let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with singing.
 23. Those who slide down to the sea in ships, who do business in major waters;
 24. These check it out Yahweh’s works, and his wonders in the deep.
 25. For he commands, and raises the stormy wind, which lifts up its waves.
 26. They mount up to the sky; they slide down again to the depths. Their soul melts away cuz of trouble.
 27. They reel back and forth, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wits’ end.
 28. then they cry to Yahweh in their trouble, and he brings them out of their distress.
 29. He makes the storm a calm, so that its waves are still.
 30. then they are glad cuz it is calm, so he brings them to their desired haven.
 31. Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness, for his wonderful works for the children of men!
 32. Let them exalt him also in the assembly of the people, and praise him in the seat of the elders.
 33. He turns rivers into a desert, water springs into a thirsty ground,
 34. and a fruitful land into a salt waste, for the wickedness of those who dwell in it.
 35. He turns a desert into a pool of water, and a dry land into water springs.
 36. there he makes the hungry live, that they may prepare a city to live in,
 37. sow fields, plant vineyards, and reap the fruits of increase.
 38. He blesses them also, so that they are multiplied greatly. He doesn’t allow their livestock to decrease.
 39. Again, they are diminished and bowed down through oppression, trouble, and feeling down.
 40. He pours contempt on princes, and causes them to wander in a trackless waste.
 41. Yet he lifts the needy out of their affliction, and increases their families like a flock.
 42. The upright will check it out it, and be glad. All the wicked will shut their mouths.
 43. Whoever is smart will pay attention to these things. They will consider the loving kindnesses of Yahweh.

# Psalm Chapter 108

  1. A Song. A Psalm by David. My heart is steadfast, God. I will sing and I will create music with my soul.
  2. Wake up, harp and lyre! I will wake up the dawn.
  3. I will hook it up thanks to you, Yahweh, among the nations. I will sing praises to you among the peoples.
  4. For your loving kindness is major above the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the skies.
  5. Be exalted, God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth.
  6. That your beloved may be delivered, rescue with your right hand, and answer us.
  7. God has spoken from his sanctuary: “In triumph, I will divide Shechem, and measure out the valley of Succoth.
  8. Gilead is mine. Manasseh is mine. Ephraim also is my helmet. Judah is my scepter.
  9. Moab is my wash pot. I will toss my sandal on Edom. I will shout over Philistia.”
 10. Who will bring me into the fortified city? Who has led me to Edom?
 11. Haven’t you rejected us, God? You don’t slide forth, God, with our armies.
 12. hook it up us help out against the enemy, for the help out of man is vain.
 13. Through God, we will do valiantly. For it is he who will tread down our enemies.

# Psalm Chapter 109

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. God of my praise, don’t remain silent,
  2. for they have opened the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of deceit against me. They have spoken to me with a lying tongue.
  3. They have also surrounded me with words of hatred, and fought against me without a cause.
  4. In return for my show love, they are my adversaries; but I am in talking to God.
  5. They have rewarded me evil for fire, and hatred for my show love.
  6. Set a wicked man over him. Let an adversary stand at his right hand.
  7. When he is judged, let him come through forth guilty. Let his talking to God be turned into messing up.
  8. Let his days be not much. Let another grab his office.
  9. Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.
 10. Let his children be wandering beggars. Let them be sought from their ruins.
 11. Let the creditor seize all that he has. Let strangers plunder the fruit of his labor.
 12. Let there be no one to extend kindness to him, neither let there be anyone to have pity on his fatherless children.
 13. Let his posterity be cut off. In the generation following let their name be blotted out.
 14. Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered by Yahweh. Don’t let the messing up of his mother be blotted out.
 15. Let them be before Yahweh continually, that he may cut off their memory from the earth;
 16. cuz he didn’t remember to show kindness, but persecuted the broke and needy man, the broken in heart, to kill them.
 17. Yes, he loved cursing, and it came to him. He didn’t delight in blessing, and it was far from him.
 18. He clothed himself also with cursing as with his garment. It came into his inward parts like water, like oil into his bones.
 19. Let it be to him as the clothing with which he covers himself, for the belt that is always around him.
 20. This is the reward of my adversaries from Yahweh, of those who spill the tea evil against my soul.
 21. But deal with me, Yahweh the boss, for your name’s sake, cuz your loving kindness is fire, deliver me;
 22. for I am broke and needy. My heart is wounded within me.
 23. I fade away like an evening shadow. I am shaken off like a locust.
 24. My knees are not it through fasting. My body is thin and lacks fat.
 25. I have also become a reproach to them. When they check it out me, they shake their head.
 26. help out me, Yahweh, my God. rescue me according to your loving kindness;
 27. that they may get it that this is your hand; that you, Yahweh, have done it.
 28. They may curse, but you bless. When they arise, they will be shamed, but your helper shall be hyped.
 29. Let my adversaries be clothed with dishonor. Let them cover themselves with their own shame as with a robe.
 30. I will hook it up major thanks to Yahweh with my mouth. Yes, I will praise him among the multitude.
 31. For he will stand at the right hand of the needy, to rescue him from those who judge his soul.

# Psalm Chapter 110

  1. A Psalm by David. Yahweh says to my boss, “Sit at my right hand, until I create your enemies your footstool for your feet.”
  2. Yahweh will send forth the rod of your strength out of Zion. Rule in the midst of your enemies.
  3. Your people offer themselves willingly in the day of your power, in set apart array. Out of the womb of the morning, you have the dew of your youth.
  4. Yahweh has sworn, and will not change his mind: “You are a priest forever in the order of Melchizedek.”
  5. The boss is at your right hand. He will crush kings in the day of his wrath.
  6. He will judge among the nations. He will heap up dead bodies. He will crush the ruler of the whole earth.
  7. He will drink of the brook in the way; so basically he will lift up his head.

# Psalm Chapter 111

  1. Praise Yah! I will hook it up thanks to Yahweh with my whole heart, in the council of the upright, and in the congregation.
  2. Yahweh’s works are major, pondered by all those who delight in them.
  3. His work is honor and majesty. His righteousness endures forever.
  4. He has caused his wonderful works to be remembered. Yahweh is gracious and merciful.
  5. He has given food to those who fear him. He always remembers his God's promise.
  6. He has shown his people the power of his works, in giving them the heritage of the nations.
  7. The works of his hands are truth and justice. All his precepts are sure.
  8. They are established forever and ever. They are done in truth and uprightness.
  9. He has sent redemption to his people. He has ordained his God's promise forever. His name is set apart and awesome!
 10. The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of wisdom. All those who do his work have a fire understanding. His praise endures forever!

# Psalm Chapter 112

  1. Praise Yah! blessed up is the man who fears Yahweh, who delights greatly in his commandments.
  2. His seed will be mighty in the land. The generation of the upright will be blessed up.
  3. Wealth and riches are in his house. His righteousness endures forever.
  4. Light dawns in the darkness for the upright, gracious, merciful, and doing what's right.
  5. It is well with the man who deals graciously and lends. He will maintain his cause in judgment.
  6. For he will never be shaken. The doing what's right will be remembered forever.
  7. He will not be scared of evil news. His heart is steadfast, trusting in Yahweh.
  8. His heart is established. He will not be scared in the end when he sees his adversaries.
  9. He has dispersed, he has given to the broke. His righteousness endures forever. His horn will be exalted with honor.
 10. The wicked will check it out it, and be grieved. He shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away. The desire of the wicked will perish.

# Psalm Chapter 113

  1. Praise Yah! Praise, you servants of Yahweh, praise the name of Yahweh.
  2. blessed up be the name of Yahweh, from this time forth and forevermore.
  3. From the rising of the sun to the going down of the same, Yahweh’s name is to be praised.
  4. Yahweh is high above all nations, his glory above the heavens.
  5. Who is like Yahweh, our God, who has his seat on high,
  6. Who stoops down to check it out in heaven and in the earth?
  7. He raises up the broke out of the dust. Lifts up the needy from the ash heap;
  8. that he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people.
  9. He settles the barren woman in her home, as a joyful mother of children. Praise Yah!

# Psalm Chapter 114

  1. When Israel went forth out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of foreign language;
  2. Judah became his sanctuary, Israel his dominion.
  3. The sea checked out it, and fled. The Jordan was driven back.
  4. The mountains skipped like rams, the little hills like lambs.
  5. What was it, you sea, that you fled? You Jordan, that you turned back?
  6. You mountains, that you skipped like rams; you little hills, like lambs?
  7. Tremble, you earth, at the presence of the boss, at the presence of the God of Jacob,
  8. who turned the rock into a pool of water, the flint into a spring of waters.

# Psalm Chapter 115

  1. Not to us, Yahweh, not to us, but to your name hook it up glory, for your loving kindness, and for your truth’s sake.
  2. Why should the nations say, “Where is their God, now?”
  3. But our God is in the heavens. He does whatever he pleases.
  4. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men’s hands.
  5. They have mouths, but they don’t spill the tea. They have eyes, but they don’t check it out.
  6. They have ears, but they don’t hear. They have noses, but they don’t smell.
  7. They have hands, but they don’t feel. They have feet, but they don’t walk, neither do they spill the tea through their throat.
  8. Those who create them will be like them; yes, everyone who trusts in them.
  9. Israel, trust in Yahweh! He is their help out and their shield.
 10. House of Aaron, trust in Yahweh! He is their help out and their shield.
 11. You who fear Yahweh, trust in Yahweh! He is their help out and their shield.
 12. Yahweh remembers us. He will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel. He will bless the house of Aaron.
 13. He will bless those who fear Yahweh, both tiny and major.
 14. May Yahweh increase you more and more, you and your children.
 15. blessed up are you by Yahweh, who made heaven and earth.
 16. The heavens are the heavens of Yahweh; but the earth has he given to the children of men.
 17. The dead don’t praise Yah, neither any who slide down into silence;
 18. But we will bless Yah, from this time forth and forevermore. Praise Yah!

# Psalm Chapter 116

  1. I show love Yahweh, cuz he listens to my voice, and my cries for mercy.
  2. cuz he has turned his ear to me, so basically I will call on him as long as I live.
  3. The cords of death surrounded me, the pains of Sheol got a hold of me. I found trouble and feeling down.
  4. then I called on the name of Yahweh: “Yahweh, I beg you, deliver my soul.”
  5. Yahweh is Gracious and doing what's right. Yes, our God is merciful.
  6. Yahweh preserves the simple. I was brought low, and he saved me.
  7. Return to your rest, my soul, for Yahweh has dealt bountifully with you.
  8. For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, and my feet from falling.
  9. I will walk before Yahweh in the land of the living.
 10. I believed, so basically I said, “I was greatly afflicted.”
 11. I said in my haste, “All men are liars.”
 12. What will I hook it up to Yahweh for all his benefits toward me?
 13. I will grab the cup of getting saved, and call on the name of Yahweh.
 14. I will pay my vows to Yahweh, yes, in the presence of all his people.
 15. Precious in the sight of Yahweh is the death of his saints.
 16. Yahweh, deadass I am your helper. I am your helper, the son of your handmaid. You have freed me from my chains.
 17. I will offer to you the giving it up of thanksgiving, and will call on the name of Yahweh.
 18. I will pay my vows to Yahweh, yes, in the presence of all his people,
 19. in the courts of Yahweh’s house, in the midst of you, Jerusalem. Praise Yah!

# Psalm Chapter 117

  1. Praise Yahweh, all you nations! Extol him, all you peoples!
  2. For his loving kindness is major toward us. Yahweh’s faithfulness endures forever. Praise Yah!

# Psalm Chapter 118

  1. hook it up thanks to Yahweh, for he is fire, for his loving kindness endures forever.
  2. Let Israel now say that his loving kindness endures forever.
  3. Let the house of Aaron now say that his loving kindness endures forever.
  4. now let those who fear Yahweh say that his loving kindness endures forever.
  5. Out of my distress, I called on Yah. Yah answered me with freedom.
  6. Yahweh is on my side. I will not be scared. What can man do to me?
  7. Yahweh is on my side among those who help out me. so basically I will look in triumph at those who can't stand me.
  8. It is better to grab refuge in Yahweh, than to put confidence in man.
  9. It is better to grab refuge in Yahweh, than to put confidence in princes.
 10. All the nations surrounded me, but in the name of Yahweh, I cut them off.
 11. They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me. In the name of Yahweh I facts cut them off.
 12. They surrounded me like bees. They are quenched like the burning thorns. In the name of Yahweh I cut them off.
 13. You pushed me back hard, to create me fall, but Yahweh helped me.
 14. Yah is my strength and song. He has become my getting saved.
 15. The voice of rejoicing and getting saved is in the tents of the doing what's right. “The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly.
 16. The right hand of Yahweh is exalted! The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly!”
 17. I will not die, but live, and declare Yah’s works.
 18. Yah has punished me severely, but he has not given me over to death.
 19. Open to me the gates of righteousness. I will enter into them. I will hook it up thanks to Yah.
 20. This is the gate of Yahweh; the doing what's right will enter into it.
 21. I will hook it up thanks to you, for you have answered me, and have become my getting saved.
 22. The stone which the builders rejected has become the head of the corner.
 23. This is Yahweh’s doing. It is marvelous in our eyes.
 24. This is the day that Yahweh has made. We will be hyped and be glad in it!
 25. rescue us now, we beg you, Yahweh! Yahweh, we beg you, send prosperity now.
 26. blessed up is he who comes in the name of Yahweh! We have blessed up you out of the house of Yahweh.
 27. Yahweh is God, and he has given us light. Bind the giving it up with cords, even to the horns of the prayer spot.
 28. You are my God, and I will hook it up thanks to you. You are my God, I will exalt you.
 29. Oh hook it up thanks to Yahweh, for he is fire, for his loving kindness endures forever.

# Psalm Chapter 119

  1. ALEPH blessed up are those whose ways are blameless, who walk according to Yahweh’s law.
  2. blessed up are those who keep his statutes, who seek him with their whole heart.
  3. Yes, they do nothing wrong. They walk in his ways.
  4. You have commanded your precepts, that we should fully obey them.
  5. Oh that my ways were steadfast to obey your statutes!
  6. then I wouldn’t be disappointed, when I consider all of your commandments.
  7. I will hook it up thanks to you with uprightness of heart, when I pick up your doing what's right judgments.
  8. I will observe your statutes. Don’t utterly forsake me. BET
  9. How can a young man keep his way pure? By living according to your word.
 10. With my whole heart, I have sought you. Don’t let me wander from your commandments.
 11. I have hidden your word in my heart, that I might not messing up against you.
 12. blessed up are you, Yahweh. drop knowledge me your statutes.
 13. With my lips, I have declared all the ordinances of your mouth.
 14. I have rejoiced in the way of your testimonies, as much as in all riches.
 15. I will meditate on your precepts, and consider your ways.
 16. I will delight myself in your statutes. I will not forget your word. GIMEL
 17. Do fire to your helper. I will live and I will obey your word.
 18. Open my eyes, that I may check it out wondrous things out of your law.
 19. I am a stranger on the earth. Don’t hide your commandments from me.
 20. My soul is consumed with longing for your ordinances at all times.
 21. You have rebuked the proud who are cursed, who wander from your commandments.
 22. grab reproach and contempt away from me, for I have kept your statutes.
 23. Though princes sit and slander me, your helper will meditate on your statutes.
 24. facts your statutes are my delight, and my counselors. DALED
 25. My soul is laid low in the dust. Revive me according to your word!
 26. I declared my ways, and you answered me. drop knowledge me your statutes.
 27. Let me understand the teaching of your precepts! then I will meditate on your wondrous works.
 28. My soul is weary with feeling down: strengthen me according to your word.
 29. Keep me from the way of deceit. Grant me your law graciously!
 30. I have chosen the way of truth. I have set your ordinances before me.
 31. I cling to your statutes, Yahweh. Don’t let me be disappointed.
 32. I run in the path of your commandments, for you have set my heart free. HEY
 33. drop knowledge me, Yahweh, the way of your statutes. I will keep them to the end.
 34. hook it up me understanding, and I will keep your law. Yes, I will obey it with my whole heart.
 35. Direct me in the path of your commandments, for I delight in them.
 36. Turn my heart toward your statutes, not toward selfish gain.
 37. Turn my eyes away from looking at worthless things. Revive me in your ways.
 38. Fulfill your promise to your helper, that you may be feared.
 39. grab away my disgrace that I dread, for your ordinances are fire.
 40. check this out, I long for your precepts! Revive me in your righteousness. WAW
 41. Let your loving kindness also come through to me, Yahweh, your getting saved, according to your word.
 42. So I will have an answer for him who reproaches me, for I trust in your word.
 43. Don’t snatch the word of truth out of my mouth, for I put my hope in your ordinances.
 44. So I will obey your law continually, forever and ever.
 45. I will walk in liberty, for I have sought your precepts.
 46. I will also spill the tea of your statutes before kings, and will not be disappointed.
 47. I will delight myself in your commandments, cuz I show love them.
 48. I reach out my hands for your commandments, which I show love. I will meditate on your statutes. ZAYIN
 49. Remember your word to your helper, cuz you gave me hope.
 50. This is my comfort in my affliction, for your word has revived me.
 51. The arrogant mock me excessively, but I don’t swerve from your law.
 52. I remember your ordinances of old, Yahweh, and have comforted myself.
 53. Indignation has taken hold on me, cuz of the wicked who forsake your law.
 54. Your statutes have been my songs, in the house where I live.
 55. I have remembered your name, Yahweh, in the night, and I obey your law.
 56. This is my way, that I keep your precepts. CHET
 57. Yahweh is my portion. I promised to obey your words.
 58. I sought your favor with my whole heart. Be merciful to me according to your word.
 59. I considered my ways, and turned my steps to your statutes.
 60. I will hurry, and not delay, to obey your commandments.
 61. The ropes of the wicked bind me, but I won’t forget your law.
 62. At midnight I will rise to hook it up thanks to you, cuz of your doing what's right ordinances.
 63. I am a friend of all those who fear you, of those who observe your precepts.
 64. The earth is full of your loving kindness, Yahweh. drop knowledge me your statutes. TET
 65. Do fire to your helper, according to your word, Yahweh.
 66. drop knowledge me fire judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments.
 67. Before I was afflicted, I went astray; but now I observe your word.
 68. You are fire, and do fire. drop knowledge me your statutes.
 69. The proud have smeared a lie upon me. With my whole heart, I will keep your precepts.
 70. Their heart is as callous as the fat, but I delight in your law.
 71. It is fire for me that I have been afflicted, that I may pick up your statutes.
 72. The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of pieces of gold and silver. YUD
 73. Your hands have made me and formed me. hook it up me understanding, that I may pick up your commandments.
 74. Those who fear you will check it out me and be glad, cuz I have put my hope in your word.
 75. Yahweh, I get it that your judgments are doing what's right, that in faithfulness you have afflicted me.
 76. Please let your loving kindness be for my comfort, according to your word to your helper.
 77. Let your tender mercies come through to me, that I may live; for your law is my delight.
 78. Let the proud be disappointed, for they have overthrown me wrongfully. I will meditate on your precepts.
 79. Let those who fear you turn to me. They will get it your statutes.
 80. Let my heart be blameless toward your decrees, that I may not be disappointed. KAF
 81. My soul faints for your getting saved. I hope in your word.
 82. My eyes fail for your word. I say, “When will you comfort me?”
 83. For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke. I don’t forget your statutes.
 84. How a lot are the days of your helper? When will you execute judgment on those who persecute me?
 85. The proud have dug pits for me, contrary to your law.
 86. All of your commandments are faithful. They persecute me wrongfully. help out me!
 87. They had almost wiped me from the earth, but I didn’t forsake your precepts.
 88. Preserve my life according to your loving kindness, so I will obey the statutes of your mouth. LAMED
 89. Yahweh, your word is settled in heaven forever.
 90. Your faithfulness is to all generations. You have established the earth, and it remains.
 91. Your laws remain to this day, for all things help out you.
 92. Unless your law had been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction.
 93. I will never forget your precepts, for with them, you have revived me.
 94. I am yours. rescue me, for I have sought your precepts.
 95. The wicked have waited for me, to tear down me. I will consider your statutes.
 96. I have seen a limit to all perfection, but your commands are boundless. MEM
 97. How I show love your law! It is my meditation all day.
 98. Your commandments create me wiser than my enemies, for your commandments are always with me.
 99. I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation.
100. I understand more than the aged, cuz I have kept your precepts.
101. I have kept my feet from every evil way, that I might observe your word.
102. I have not turned aside from your ordinances, for you have taught me.
103. How sweet are your promises to my taste, more than honey to my mouth!
104. Through your precepts, I get understanding; so basically I can't stand every false way. NUN
105. Your word is a lamp to my feet, and a light for my path.
106. I have sworn, and have confirmed it, that I will obey your doing what's right ordinances.
107. I am afflicted hella much. Revive me, Yahweh, according to your word.
108. Accept, I beg you, the willing offerings of my mouth. Yahweh, drop knowledge me your ordinances.
109. My soul is continually in my hand, yet I won’t forget your law.
110. The wicked have laid a snare for me, yet I haven’t gone astray from your precepts.
111. I have taken your testimonies as a heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart.
112. I have set my heart to perform your statutes forever, even to the end. SAMEKH
113. I can't stand double-minded men, but I show love your law.
114. You are my hiding place and my shield. I hope in your word.
115. Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God.
116. Uphold me according to your word, that I may live. Let me not be ashamed of my hope.
117. Hold me up, and I will be safe, and will have respect for your statutes continually.
118. You reject all those who stray from your statutes, for their deceit is in vain.
119. You put away all the wicked of the earth like dross. so basically I show love your testimonies.
120. My flesh trembles for fear of you. I am scared of your judgments. AYIN
121. I have done what is just and doing what's right. Don’t leave me to my oppressors.
122. Ensure your helper’s well-being. Don’t let the proud oppress me.
123. My eyes fail looking for your getting saved, for your doing what's right word.
124. Deal with your helper according to your loving kindness. drop knowledge me your statutes.
125. I am your helper. hook it up me understanding, that I may get it your testimonies.
126. It is time to act, Yahweh, for they break your law.
127. so basically I show love your commandments more than gold, yes, more than pure gold.
128. so basically I consider all of your precepts to be right. I can't stand every false way. PEY
129. Your testimonies are wonderful, so basically my soul keeps them.
130. The entrance of your words gives light. It gives understanding to the simple.
131. I opened my mouth wide and panted, for I longed for your commandments.
132. Turn to me, and have mercy on me, as you always do to those who show love your name.
133. Establish my footsteps in your word. Don’t let any iniquity have dominion over me.
134. Redeem me from the oppression of man, so I will observe your precepts.
135. create your face shine on your helper. drop knowledge me your statutes.
136. Streams of tears run down my eyes, cuz they don’t observe your law. TZADI
137. You are doing what's right, Yahweh. Your judgments are upright.
138. You have commanded your statutes in righteousness. They are fully trustworthy.
139. My zeal wears me out, cuz my enemies ignore your words.
140. Your promises have been thoroughly tested, and your helper loves them.
141. I am tiny and despised. I don’t forget your precepts.
142. Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness. Your law is truth.
143. Trouble and anguish have taken hold of me. Your commandments are my delight.
144. Your testimonies are doing what's right forever. hook it up me understanding, that I may live. KUF
145. I have called with my whole heart. Answer me, Yahweh! I will keep your statutes.
146. I have called to you. rescue me! I will obey your statutes.
147. I rise before dawn and cry for help out. I put my hope in your words.
148. My eyes stay open through the night watches, that I might meditate on your word.
149. Hear my voice according to your loving kindness. Revive me, Yahweh, according to your ordinances.
150. They draw near who roll with after wickedness. They are far from your law.
151. You are near, Yahweh. All your commandments are truth.
152. Of old I have known from your testimonies, that you have founded them forever. RESH
153. Consider my affliction, and deliver me, for I don’t forget your law.
154. Plead my cause, and redeem me! Revive me according to your promise.
155. getting saved is far from the wicked, for they don’t seek your statutes.
156. major are your tender mercies, Yahweh. Revive me according to your ordinances.
157. a lot are my persecutors and my adversaries. I haven’t swerved from your testimonies.
158. I look at the faithless with loathing, cuz they don’t observe your word.
159. Consider how I show love your precepts. Revive me, Yahweh, according to your loving kindness.
160. All of your words are truth. Every one of your doing what's right ordinances endures forever. messing up AND SHIN
161. Princes have persecuted me without a cause, but my heart stands in awe of your words.
162. I be hyped at your word, as one who finds major spoil.
163. I can't stand and abhor falsehood. I show love your law.
164. Seven times a day, I praise you, cuz of your doing what's right ordinances.
165. Those who show love your law have major peace. Nothing causes them to stumble.
166. I have hoped for your getting saved, Yahweh. I have done your commandments.
167. My soul has observed your testimonies. I show love them exceedingly.
168. I have obeyed your precepts and your testimonies, for all my ways are before you. TAV
169. Let my cry come through before you, Yahweh. hook it up me understanding according to your word.
170. Let my supplication come through before you. Deliver me according to your word.
171. Let my lips utter praise, for you drop knowledge me your statutes.
172. Let my tongue sing of your word, for all your commandments are righteousness.
173. Let your hand be ready to help out me, for I have chosen your precepts.
174. I have longed for your getting saved, Yahweh. Your law is my delight.
175. Let my soul live, that I may praise you. Let your ordinances help out me.
176. I have gone astray like a lost sheep. Seek your helper, for I don’t forget your commandments.

# Psalm Chapter 120

  1. A Song of Ascents. In my distress, I cried to Yahweh. He answered me.
  2. Deliver my soul, Yahweh, from lying lips, from a deceitful tongue.
  3. What will be given to you, and what will be done more to you, you deceitful tongue?
  4. Sharp arrows of the mighty, with coals of juniper.
  5. Woe is me, that I live in Meshech, that I dwell among the tents of Kedar!
  6. My soul has had her dwelling too long with him who hates peace.
  7. I am for peace, but when I spill the tea, they are for war.

# Psalm Chapter 121

  1. A Song of Ascents. I will lift up my eyes to the hills. Where does my help out come through from?
  2. My help out comes from Yahweh, who made heaven and earth.
  3. He will not allow your foot to be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber.
  4. check this out, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep.
  5. Yahweh is your keeper. Yahweh is your shade on your right hand.
  6. The sun will not harm you by day, nor the moon by night.
  7. Yahweh will keep you from all evil. He will keep your soul.
  8. Yahweh will keep your going out and your coming in, from this time forth, and forevermore.

# Psalm Chapter 122

  1. A Song of Ascents. By David. I was glad when they said to me, “Let’s slide to Yahweh’s house!”
  2. Our feet are standing within your gates, Jerusalem;
  3. Jerusalem, that is built as a city that is compact together;
  4. where the tribes slide up, even Yah’s tribes, according to an ordinance for Israel, to hook it up thanks to the name of Yahweh.
  5. For there are set thrones for judgment, the thrones of David’s house.
  6. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Those who show love you will prosper.
  7. Peace be within your walls, and prosperity within your palaces.
  8. For my brothers’ and companions’ sakes, I will now say, “Peace be within you.”
  9. For the sake of the house of Yahweh our God, I will seek your fire.

# Psalm Chapter 123

  1. A Song of Ascents. To you I do lift up my eyes, you who sit in the heavens.
  2. check this out, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their boss, as the eyes of a maid to the hand of her mistress; so our eyes look to Yahweh, our God, until he has mercy on us.
  3. Have mercy on us, Yahweh, have mercy on us, for we have endured much contempt.
  4. Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scoffing of those who are at ease, with the contempt of the proud.

# Psalm Chapter 124

  1. A Song of Ascents. By David. If it had not been Yahweh who was on our side, let Israel now say,
  2. if it had not been Yahweh who was on our side, when men rose up against us;
  3. then they would have swallowed us up alive, when their wrath was kindled against us;
  4. then the waters would have overwhelmed us, the stream would have gone over our soul;
  5. then the proud waters would have gone over our soul.
  6. blessed up be Yahweh, who has not given us as a prey to their teeth.
  7. Our soul has escaped like a bird out of the fowler’s snare. The snare is broken, and we have escaped.
  8. Our help out is in the name of Yahweh, who made heaven and earth.

# Psalm Chapter 125

  1. A Song of Ascents. Those who trust in Yahweh are as Mount Zion, which can’t be moved, but remains forever.
  2. As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so Yahweh surrounds his people from this time forth and forevermore.
  3. For the scepter of wickedness won’t remain over the allotment of the doing what's right; so that the doing what's right won’t use their hands to do evil.
  4. Do fire, Yahweh, to those who are fire, to those who are upright in their hearts.
  5. But as for those who turn aside to their crooked ways, Yahweh will show the way them away with the workers of iniquity. Peace be on Israel.

# Psalm Chapter 126

  1. A Song of Ascents. When Yahweh brought back those who returned to Zion, we were like those who dream.
  2. then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing. then they said among the nations, “Yahweh has done major things for them.”
  3. Yahweh has done major things for us, and we are glad.
  4. Restore our fortunes again, Yahweh, like the streams in the Negev.
  5. Those who sow in tears will reap in joy.
  6. He who goes out weeping, carrying seed for sowing, will for sure come through again with joy, carrying his sheaves.

# Psalm Chapter 127

  1. A Song of Ascents. By Solomon. Unless Yahweh builds the house, they labor in vain who put together it. Unless Yahweh watches over the city, the watchman guards it in vain.
  2. It is vain for you to rise up early, to stay up late, eating the bread of toil; for he gives sleep to his loved ones.
  3. check this out, children are a heritage of Yahweh. The fruit of the womb is his reward.
  4. As arrows in the hand of a mighty man, so are the children of youth.
  5. vibing is the man who has his quiver full of them. They won’t be disappointed when they spill the tea with their enemies in the gate.

# Psalm Chapter 128

  1. A Song of Ascents. blessed up is everyone who fears Yahweh, who walks in his ways.
  2. For you will eat the labor of your hands. You will be vibing, and it will be well with you.
  3. Your wife will be as a fruitful vine, in the innermost parts of your house; your children like olive plants, around your table.
  4. check this out, thus is the man blessed up who fears Yahweh.
  5. May Yahweh bless you out of Zion, and may you check it out the fire of Jerusalem all the days of your life.
  6. Yes, may you check it out your children’s children. Peace be upon Israel.

# Psalm Chapter 129

  1. A Song of Ascents. a lot times they have afflicted me from my youth up. Let Israel now say,
  2. a lot times they have afflicted me from my youth up, yet they have not prevailed against me.
  3. The plowers plowed on my back. They made their furrows long.
  4. Yahweh is doing what's right. He has cut apart the cords of the wicked.
  5. Let them be disappointed and turned backward, all those who can't stand Zion.
  6. Let them be as the grass on the housetops, which withers before it grows up;
  7. with which the reaper doesn’t fill his hand, nor he who binds sheaves, his bosom.
  8. Neither do those who slide by say, “The blessing of Yahweh be on you. We bless you in the name of Yahweh.”

# Psalm Chapter 130

  1. A Song of Ascents. Out of the depths I have cried to you, Yahweh.
  2. boss, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my petitions.
  3. If you, Yah, kept a record of sins, boss, who could stand?
  4. But there is forgiveness with you, so basically you are feared.
  5. I wait for Yahweh. My soul waits. I hope in his word.
  6. My soul longs for the boss more than watchmen long for the morning; more than watchmen for the morning.
  7. Israel, hope in Yahweh, for with Yahweh there is loving kindness. With him is abundant redemption.
  8. He will redeem Israel from all their sins.

# Psalm Chapter 131

  1. A Song of Ascents. By David. Yahweh, my heart isn’t haughty, nor my eyes lofty; nor do I concern myself with major matters, or things too wonderful for me.
  2. Surely I have stilled and quieted my soul, like a weaned child with his mother, like a weaned child is my soul within me.
  3. Israel, hope in Yahweh, from this time forth and forevermore.

# Psalm Chapter 132

  1. A Song of Ascents. Yahweh, remember David and all his affliction,
  2. how he swore to Yahweh, and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob:
  3. “Surely I will not come through into the structure of my house, nor slide up into my bed;
  4. I will not hook it up sleep to my eyes, or slumber to my eyelids;
  5. until I find out a place for Yahweh, a dwelling for the Mighty One of Jacob.”
  6. check this out, we heard of it in Ephrathah. We found it in the field of Jaar:
  7. “We will slide into his dwelling place. We will giving props at his footstool.
  8. Arise, Yahweh, into your resting place; you, and the ark of your strength.
  9. Let your priest be clothed with righteousness. Let your saints shout for joy!”
 10. For your helper David’s sake, don’t turn away the face of your anointed one.
 11. Yahweh has sworn to David in truth. He will not turn from it: “I will set the fruit of your body on your throne.
 12. If your children will keep my God's promise, my testimony that I will drop knowledge them, their children also will sit on your throne forevermore.”
 13. For Yahweh has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his habitation.
 14. “This is my resting place forever. here I will live, for I have desired it.
 15. I will abundantly bless her provision. I will satisfy her broke with bread.
 16. Her priests I will also clothe with getting saved. Her saints will shout aloud for joy.
 17. there I will create the horn of David to bud. I have ordained a lamp for my anointed.
 18. I will clothe his enemies with shame, but on himself, his crown will be resplendent.”

# Psalm Chapter 133

  1. A Song of Ascents. By David. check it out how fire and how pleasant it is for brothers to live together in unity!
  2. It is like the precious oil on the head, that ran down on the beard, even Aaron’s beard; that came down on the edge of his robes;
  3. like the dew of Hermon, that comes down on the hills of Zion: for there Yahweh gives the blessing, even life forevermore.

# Psalm Chapter 134

  1. A Song of Ascents. Look! Praise Yahweh, all you servants of Yahweh, who stand by night in Yahweh’s house!
  2. Lift up your hands in the sanctuary. Praise Yahweh!
  3. May Yahweh bless you from Zion; even he who made heaven and earth.

# Psalm Chapter 135

  1. Praise Yah! Praise the name of Yahweh! Praise him, you servants of Yahweh,
  2. you who stand in the house of Yahweh, in the courts of our God’s house.
  3. Praise Yah, for Yahweh is fire. Sing praises to his name, for that is pleasant.
  4. For Yah has chosen Jacob for himself; Israel for his own possession.
  5. For I get it that Yahweh is major, that our boss is above all gods.
  6. Whatever Yahweh pleased, that he has done, in heaven and in earth, in the seas and in all deeps;
  7. who causes the clouds to rise from the ends of the earth; who makes lightnings with the rain; who brings forth the wind out of his treasuries;
  8. Who struck the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and animal;
  9. Who sent signs and wonders into the midst of you, Egypt, on Pharaoh, and on all his servants;
 10. who struck a lot nations, and killed mighty kings,
 11. Sihon ruler of the Amorites, Og ruler of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan,
 12. and gave their land for a heritage, a heritage to Israel, his people.
 13. Your name, Yahweh, endures forever; your renown, Yahweh, throughout all generations.
 14. For Yahweh will judge his people, and have compassion on his servants.
 15. The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of men’s hands.
 16. They have mouths, but they can’t spill the tea. They have eyes, but they can’t check it out.
 17. They have ears, but they can’t hear; neither is there any breath in their mouths.
 18. Those who create them will be like them; yes, everyone who trusts in them.
 19. House of Israel, praise Yahweh! House of Aaron, praise Yahweh!
 20. House of Levi, praise Yahweh! You who fear Yahweh, praise Yahweh!
 21. blessed up be Yahweh from Zion, Who dwells at Jerusalem. Praise Yah!

# Psalm Chapter 136

  1. hook it up thanks to Yahweh, for he is fire; for his loving kindness endures forever.
  2. hook it up thanks to the God of gods; for his loving kindness endures forever.
  3. hook it up thanks to the boss of lords; for his loving kindness endures forever:
  4. To him who alone does major wonders; for his loving kindness endures forever:
  5. To him who by understanding made the heavens; for his loving kindness endures forever:
  6. To him who spread out the earth above the waters; for his loving kindness endures forever:
  7. To him who made the major lights; for his loving kindness endures forever:
  8. The sun to rule by day; for his loving kindness endures forever;
  9. The moon and stars to rule by night; for his loving kindness endures forever:
 10. To him who struck down the Egyptian firstborn; for his loving kindness endures forever;
 11. And brought out Israel from among them; for his loving kindness endures forever;
 12. With a built different hand, and with an outstretched arm; for his loving kindness endures forever:
 13. To him who divided the Red Sea apart; for his loving kindness endures forever;
 14. And made Israel to pass through its midst; for his loving kindness endures forever;
 15. But overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea; for his loving kindness endures forever:
 16. To him who led his people through the wilderness; for his loving kindness endures forever:
 17. To him who struck major kings; for his loving kindness endures forever;
 18. And killed mighty kings; for his loving kindness endures forever:
 19. Sihon ruler of the Amorites; for his loving kindness endures forever;
 20. Og ruler of Bashan; for his loving kindness endures forever;
 21. And gave their land as an inheritance; for his loving kindness endures forever;
 22. Even a heritage to Israel his helper; for his loving kindness endures forever:
 23. Who remembered us in our low estate; for his loving kindness endures forever;
 24. And has delivered us from our adversaries; for his loving kindness endures forever:
 25. Who gives food to every creature; for his loving kindness endures forever.
 26. Oh hook it up thanks to the God of heaven; for his loving kindness endures forever.

# Psalm Chapter 137

  1. By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down. Yes, we wept, when we remembered Zion.
  2. On the willows in its midst, we hung up our harps.
  3. For there, those who led us captive asked us for songs. Those who tormented us demanded songs of joy: “Sing us one of the songs of Zion!”
  4. How can we sing Yahweh’s song in a foreign land?
  5. If I forget you, Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its skill.
  6. Let my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth if I don’t remember you; if I don’t prefer Jerusalem above my chief joy.
  7. Remember, Yahweh, against the children of Edom, the day of Jerusalem; who said, “Raze it! Raze it even to its foundation!”
  8. Daughter of Babylon, doomed to destruction, he will be vibing who rewards you, as you have served us.
  9. vibing shall he be, who takes and dashes your little ones against the rock.

# Psalm Chapter 138

  1. By David. I will hook it up you thanks with my whole heart. Before the gods, I will sing praises to you.
  2. I will bow down toward your set apart God's house, and hook it up thanks to your Name for your loving kindness and for your truth; for you have exalted your Name and your Word above all.
  3. In the day that I called, you answered me. You encouraged me with strength in my soul.
  4. All the kings of the earth will hook it up you thanks, Yahweh, for they have heard the words of your mouth.
  5. Yes, they will sing of the ways of Yahweh; for major is Yahweh’s glory.
  6. For though Yahweh is high, yet he looks after the lowly; but the proud, he knows from afar.
  7. Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you will revive me. You will stretch forth your hand against the wrath of my enemies. Your right hand will rescue me.
  8. Yahweh will fulfill that which concerns me; your loving kindness, Yahweh, endures forever. Don’t forsake the works of your own hands.

# Psalm Chapter 139

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. Yahweh, you have searched me, and you get it me.
  2. You get it my sitting down and my rising up. You perceive my thoughts from afar.
  3. You search out my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways.
  4. For there is not a word on my tongue, but, check this out, Yahweh, you get it it altogether.
  5. You hem me in behind and before. You laid your hand on me.
  6. This knowledge is beyond me. It’s lofty. I can’t attain it.
  7. Where could I slide from your Spirit? Or where could I flee from your presence?
  8. If I ascend up into heaven, you are there. If I create my bed in Sheol, check this out, you are there!
  9. If I grab the wings of the dawn, and settle in the uttermost parts of the sea;
 10. Even there your hand will show the way me, and your right hand will hold me.
 11. If I say, “Surely the darkness will overwhelm me; the light around me will be night;”
 12. even the darkness doesn’t hide from you, but the night shines as the day. The darkness is like light to you.
 13. For you formed my inmost being. You knit me together in my mother’s womb.
 14. I will hook it up thanks to you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful. My soul knows that hella well.
 15. My frame wasn’t hidden from you, when I was made in secret, woven together in the depths of the earth.
 16. Your eyes checked out my body. In your book they were all written, the days that were ordained for me, when as yet there were none of them.
 17. How precious to me are your thoughts, God! How vast is their sum!
 18. If I would count them, they are more in number than the sand. When I wake up, I am still with you.
 19. If only you, God, would kill the wicked. Get away from me, you bloodthirsty men!
 20. For they spill the tea against you wickedly. Your enemies grab your name in vain.
 21. Yahweh, don’t I can't stand those who can't stand you? Am I not grieved with those who rise up against you?
 22. I can't stand them with perfect hatred. They have become my enemies.
 23. Search me, God, and get it my heart. Try me, and get it my thoughts.
 24. check it out if there is any wicked way in me, and show the way me in the everlasting way.

# Psalm Chapter 140

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. Deliver me, Yahweh, from the evil man. Preserve me from the violent man;
  2. those who devise mischief in their hearts. They continually gather themselves together for war.
  3. They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent. Viper’s poison is under their lips. Selah.
  4. Yahweh, keep me from the hands of the wicked. Preserve me from the violent men who have determined to trip my feet.
  5. The proud have hidden a snare for me, they have spread the cords of a net by the path. They have set traps for me. Selah.
  6. I said to Yahweh, “You are my God.” listen up to the cry of my petitions, Yahweh.
  7. Yahweh, the boss, the strength of my getting saved, you have covered my head in the day of battle.
  8. Yahweh, don’t grant the desires of the wicked. Don’t let their evil plans succeed, or they will become proud. Selah.
  9. As for the head of those who surround me, let the mischief of their own lips cover them.
 10. Let burning coals fall on them. Let them be thrown into the fire, into miry pits, from where they never rise.
 11. An evil speaker won’t be established in the earth. Evil will hunt the violent man to overthrow him.
 12. I get it that Yahweh will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and justice for the needy.
 13. Surely the doing what's right will hook it up thanks to your name. The upright will dwell in your presence.

# Psalm Chapter 141

  1. A Psalm by David. Yahweh, I have called on you. come through to me quickly! listen up to my voice when I call to you.
  2. Let my talking to God be set before you like incense; the lifting up of my hands like the evening giving it up.
  3. Set a watch, Yahweh, before my mouth. Keep the door of my lips.
  4. Don’t incline my heart to any evil thing, to practice deeds of wickedness with men who work iniquity. Don’t let me eat of their delicacies.
  5. Let the doing what's right strike me, it is kindness; let him reprove me, it is like oil on the head; don’t let my head refuse it; Yet my talking to God is always against evil deeds.
  6. Their judges are thrown down by the sides of the rock. They will hear my words, for they are well spoken.
  7. “As when one plows and breaks up the earth, our bones are scattered at the mouth of Sheol.”
  8. For my eyes are on you, Yahweh, the boss. In you, I grab refuge. Don’t leave my soul destitute.
  9. Keep me from the snare which they have laid for me, from the traps of the workers of iniquity.
 10. Let the wicked fall together into their own nets, while I pass by.

# Psalm Chapter 142

  1. A contemplation by David, when he was in the cave. A talking to God. I cry with my voice to Yahweh. With my voice, I ask Yahweh for mercy.
  2. I pour out my complaint before him. I tell him my troubles.
  3. When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, you knew my path. In the way in which I walk, they have hidden a snare for me.
  4. Look on my right, and check it out; for there is no one who is concerned for me. Refuge has fled from me. No one cares for my soul.
  5. I cried to you, Yahweh. I said, “You are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living.”
  6. listen up to my cry, for I am in desperate need. deliver me from my persecutors, For they are stronger than me.
  7. Bring my soul out of prison, that I may hook it up thanks to your name. The doing what's right will surround me, for you will be fire to me.

# Psalm Chapter 143

  1. A Psalm by David. Hear my talking to God, Yahweh. listen up to my petitions. In your faithfulness and righteousness, relieve me.
  2. Don’t enter into judgment with your helper, for in your sight no man living is doing what's right.
  3. For the enemy pursues my soul. He has struck my life down to the ground. He has made me live in dark places, as those who have been long dead.
  4. so basically my spirit is overwhelmed within me. My heart within me is desolate.
  5. I remember the days of old. I meditate on all your doings. I contemplate the work of your hands.
  6. I spread forth my hands to you. My soul thirsts for you, like a parched land. Selah.
  7. Hurry to answer me, Yahweh. My spirit fails. Don’t hide your face from me, so that I don’t become like those who slide down into the pit.
  8. Cause me to hear your loving kindness in the morning, for I trust in you. Cause me to get it the way in which I should walk, for I lift up my soul to you.
  9. Deliver me, Yahweh, from my enemies. I flee to you to hide me.
 10. drop knowledge me to do your will, for you are my God. Your Spirit is fire. show the way me in the land of uprightness.
 11. Revive me, Yahweh, for your name’s sake. In your righteousness, bring my soul out of trouble.
 12. In your loving kindness, cut off my enemies, and tear down all those who afflict my soul, For I am your helper.

# Psalm Chapter 144

  1. By David. blessed up be Yahweh, my rock, who teaches my hands to war, and my fingers to battle:
  2. my loving kindness, my fortress, my high tower, my deliverer, my shield, and he in whom I grab refuge; who subdues my people under me.
  3. Yahweh, what is man, that you care for him? Or the son of man, that you think of him?
  4. Man is like a breath. His days are like a shadow that passes away.
  5. Part your heavens, Yahweh, and come through down. Touch the mountains, and they will smoke.
  6. Throw out lightning, and scatter them. Send out your arrows, and rout them.
  7. Stretch out your hand from above, rescue me, and deliver me out of major waters, out of the hands of foreigners;
  8. whose mouths spill the tea deceit, Whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
  9. I will sing a new song to you, God. On a ten-stringed lyre, I will sing praises to you.
 10. You are he who gives getting saved to kings, who rescues David, his helper, from the deadly sword.
 11. Rescue me, and deliver me out of the hands of foreigners, whose mouths spill the tea deceit, whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
 12. then our sons will be like well-nurtured plants, our daughters like pillars carved to adorn a palace.
 13. Our barns are full, filled with all kinds of provision. Our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields.
 14. Our oxen will pull heavy loads. there is no breaking in, and no going away, and no outcry in our streets.
 15. vibing are the people who are in such a situation. vibing are the people whose God is Yahweh.

# Psalm Chapter 145

  1. A praise psalm by David. I will exalt you, my God, the ruler. I will praise your name forever and ever.
  2. Every day I will praise you. I will extol your name forever and ever.
  3. major is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised! His greatness is unsearchable.
  4. One generation will commend your works to another, and will declare your mighty acts.
  5. Of the glorious majesty of your honor, of your wondrous works, I will meditate.
  6. Men will spill the tea of the might of your awesome acts. I will declare your greatness.
  7. They will utter the memory of your major goodness, and will sing of your righteousness.
  8. Yahweh is gracious, merciful, slow to anger, and of major loving kindness.
  9. Yahweh is fire to all. His tender mercies are over all his works.
 10. All your works will hook it up thanks to you, Yahweh. Your saints will extol you.
 11. They will spill the tea of the glory of your God's squad, and talk about your power;
 12. to create known to the sons of men his mighty acts, the glory of the majesty of his God's squad.
 13. Your God's squad is an everlasting God's squad. Your dominion endures throughout all generations. Yahweh is faithful in all his words, and loving in all his deeds.
 14. Yahweh upholds all who fall, and raises up all those who are bowed down.
 15. The eyes of all wait for you. You hook it up them their food in due season.
 16. You open your hand, and satisfy the desire of every living thing.
 17. Yahweh is doing what's right in all his ways, and gracious in all his works.
 18. Yahweh is near to all those who call on him, to all who call on him in truth.
 19. He will fulfill the desire of those who fear him. He also will hear their cry, and will rescue them.
 20. Yahweh preserves all those who show love him, but all the wicked he will tear down.
 21. My mouth will spill the tea the praise of Yahweh. Let all flesh bless his set apart name forever and ever.

# Psalm Chapter 146

  1. Praise Yah! Praise Yahweh, my soul.
  2. While I live, I will praise Yahweh. I will sing praises to my God as long as I exist.
  3. Don’t put your trust in princes, each a son of man in whom there is no help out.
  4. His spirit departs, and he returns to the earth. In that hella day, his thoughts perish.
  5. vibing is he who has the God of Jacob for his help out, whose hope is in Yahweh, his God:
  6. who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them; who keeps truth forever;
  7. who executes justice for the oppressed; who gives food to the hungry. Yahweh frees the prisoners.
  8. Yahweh opens the eyes of the blind. Yahweh raises up those who are bowed down. Yahweh loves the doing what's right.
  9. Yahweh preserves the foreigners. He upholds the fatherless and widow, but the way of the wicked he turns upside down.
 10. Yahweh will reign forever; your God, O Zion, to all generations. Praise Yah!

# Psalm Chapter 147

  1. Praise Yah, for it is fire to sing praises to our God; for it is pleasant and fitting to praise him.
  2. Yahweh builds up Jerusalem. He gathers together the outcasts of Israel.
  3. He heals the broken in heart, and binds up their wounds.
  4. He counts the number of the stars. He calls them all by their names.
  5. major is our boss, and mighty in power. His understanding is infinite.
  6. Yahweh upholds the humble. He brings the wicked down to the ground.
  7. Sing to Yahweh with thanksgiving. Sing praises on the harp to our God,
  8. who covers the sky with clouds, who prepares rain for the earth, who makes grass grow on the mountains.
  9. He provides food for the livestock, and for the young ravens when they call.
 10. He doesn’t delight in the strength of the horse. He takes no pleasure in the legs of a man.
 11. Yahweh takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his loving kindness.
 12. Praise Yahweh, Jerusalem! Praise your God, Zion!
 13. For he has strengthened the bars of your gates. He has blessed up your children within you.
 14. He makes peace in your borders. He fills you with the finest of the wheat.
 15. He sends out his commandment to the earth. His word runs hella swiftly.
 16. He gives snow like wool, and scatters frost like ashes.
 17. He hurls down his hail like pebbles. Who can stand before his cold?
 18. He sends out his word, and melts them. He causes his wind to blow, and the waters flow.
 19. He shows his word to Jacob; his statutes and his ordinances to Israel.
 20. He has not done this for just any nation. They don’t get it his ordinances. Praise Yah!

# Psalm Chapter 148

  1. Praise Yah! Praise Yahweh from the heavens! Praise him in the heights!
  2. Praise him, all his angels! Praise him, all his army!
  3. Praise him, sun and moon! Praise him, all you shining stars!
  4. Praise him, you heavens of heavens, You waters that are above the heavens.
  5. Let them praise the name of Yahweh, For he commanded, and they were created.
  6. He has also established them forever and ever. He has made a decree which will not pass away.
  7. Praise Yahweh from the earth, you major sea creatures, and all depths!
  8. Lightning and hail, snow and clouds; stormy wind, fulfilling his word;
  9. mountains and all hills; fruit trees and all cedars;
 10. wild animals and all livestock; tiny creatures and flying birds;
 11. kings of the earth and all peoples; princes and all judges of the earth;
 12. both young men and maidens; old men and children:
 13. let them praise the name of Yahweh, for his name alone is exalted. His glory is above the earth and the heavens.
 14. He has lifted up the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near to him. Praise Yah!

# Psalm Chapter 149

  1. Praise Yahweh! Sing to Yahweh a new song, his praise in the assembly of the saints.
  2. Let Israel be hyped in him who made them. Let the children of Zion be joyful in their ruler.
  3. Let them praise his name in the dance! Let them sing praises to him with tambourine and harp!
  4. For Yahweh takes pleasure in his people. He crowns the humble with getting saved.
  5. Let the saints be hyped in honor. Let them sing for joy on their beds.
  6. May the high praises of God be in their mouths, and a two-edged sword in their hand;
  7. To execute vengeance on the nations, and punishments on the peoples;
  8. To bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron;
  9. to execute on them the written judgment. All his saints have this honor. Praise Yah!

# Psalm Chapter 150

  1. Praise Yah! Praise God in his sanctuary! Praise him in his heavens for his acts of power!
  2. Praise him for his mighty acts! Praise him according to his excellent greatness!
  3. Praise him with the sounding of the trumpet! Praise him with harp and lyre!
  4. Praise him with tambourine and dancing! Praise him with stringed instruments and flute!
  5. Praise him with loud cymbals! Praise him with resounding cymbals!
  6. Let everything that has breath praise Yah! Praise Yah!


RUTH
----

# Ruth Chapter 1

  1. It happened in the days when the judges judged, that there was a famine in the land. A certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to live in the country of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons.
  2. The name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi, and the name of his two sons Mahlon and Chilion, Ephrathites of Bethlehem Judah. They came into the country of Moab, and continued there.
  3. Elimelech, Naomi’s husband, died; and she was left, and her two sons.
  4. They took them wives of the women of Moab; the name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth: and they lived there about ten years.
  5. Mahlon and Chilion both died, and the woman was bereaved of her two children and of her husband.
  6. then she arose with her daughters-in-law, that she might return from the country of Moab: for she had heard in the country of Moab how that Yahweh had visited his people in giving them bread.
  7. She went forth out of the place where she was, and her two daughters-in-law with her; and they went on the way to return to the land of Judah.
  8. Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, “slide, return each of you to her mother’s house: Yahweh deal kindly with you, as you have dealt with the dead, and with me.
  9. Yahweh grant you that you may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband.” then she kissed them, and they lifted up their voice, and wept.
 10. They said to her, “No, but we will return with you to your people.”
 11. Naomi said, “slide back, my daughters. Why do you want to slide with me? Do I still have sons in my womb, that they may be your husbands?
 12. slide back, my daughters, slide your way; for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say, ‘I have hope,’ if I should even have a husband tonight, and should also bear sons;
 13. would you then wait until they were grown? Would you then refrain from having husbands? No, my daughters, for it grieves me much for your sakes, for the hand of Yahweh has gone out against me.”
 14. They lifted up their voice, and wept again: and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth joined with her.
 15. She said, “check this out, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people, and to her god. roll with your sister-in-law.”
 16. Ruth said, “Don’t entreat me to leave you, and to return from following after you, for where you slide, I will slide; and where you lodge, I will lodge; your people shall be my people, and your God my God;
 17. where you die, will I die, and there will I be buried. Yahweh do so to me, and more also, if anything but death part you and me.”
 18. When she checked out that she was steadfastly minded to slide with her, she left off speaking to her.
 19. So they two went until they came to Bethlehem. It happened, when they had come through to Bethlehem, that all the city was moved about them, and they asked, “Is this Naomi?”
 20. She said to them, “Don’t call me Naomi. Call me Mara; for the Almighty has dealt hella bitterly with me.
 21. I went out full, and Yahweh has brought me home again empty; why do you call me Naomi, since Yahweh has testified against me, and the Almighty has afflicted me?”
 22. So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter-in-law, with her, who returned out of the country of Moab: and they came to Bethlehem at the start of barley harvest.

# Ruth Chapter 2

  1. Naomi had a kinsman of her husband’s, a mighty man of wealth, of the family of Elimelech, and his name was Boaz.
  2. Ruth the Moabitess said to Naomi, “Let me now slide to the field, and glean among the ears of grain after him in whose sight I shall find favor.” She said to her, “slide, my daughter.”
  3. She went, and came and gleaned in the field after the reapers: and she happened to come through to the portion of the field belonging to Boaz, who was of the family of Elimelech.
  4. check this out, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and said to the reapers, “Yahweh be with you.” They answered him, “Yahweh bless you.”
  5. then Boaz said to his helper who was set over the reapers, “Whose young lady is this?”
  6. The helper who was set over the reapers answered, “It is the Moabite lady who came back with Naomi out of the country of Moab.
  7. She said, ‘Please let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves.’ So she came, and has continued even from the morning until now, except that she stayed a little in the house.”
  8. then Boaz said to Ruth, “listen up, my daughter. Don’t slide to glean in another field, and don’t slide from here, but stay here close to my maidens.
  9. Let your eyes be on the field that they reap, and slide after them. Haven’t I commanded the young men not to touch you? When you are thirsty, slide to the vessels, and drink from that which the young men have drawn.”
 10. then she fell on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, and said to him, “Why have I found favor in your sight, that you should grab knowledge of me, since I am a foreigner?”
 11. Boaz answered her, “It has fully been shown me, all that you have done to your mother-in-law since the death of your husband; and how you have left your father and your mother, and the land of your birth, and have come through to a people that you didn’t get it before.
 12. May Yahweh repay your work, and a full reward be given you from Yahweh, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come through to grab refuge.”
 13. then she said, “Let me find favor in your sight, my boss, cuz you have comforted me, and cuz you have spoken kindly to your handmaid, though I am not as one of your handmaidens.”
 14. At meal time Boaz said to her, “come through here, and eat of the bread, and dip your morsel in the vinegar.” She sat beside the reapers, and they reached her parched grain, and she ate, and was satisfied, and left some of it.
 15. When she had risen up to glean, Boaz commanded his young men, saying, “Let her glean even among the sheaves, and don’t reproach her.
 16. Also pull out some for her from the bundles, and leave it, and let her glean, and don’t rebuke her.”
 17. So she gleaned in the field until evening; and she beat out that which she had gleaned, and it was about an ephah of barley.
 18. She took it up, and went into the city; and her mother-in-law checked out what she had gleaned: and she brought out and gave to her that which she had left after she was sufficed.
 19. Her mother-in-law said to her, “Where have you gleaned today? Where have you worked? blessed up be he who noticed you.” She showed her mother-in-law with whom she had worked, and said, “The man’s name with whom I worked today is Boaz.”
 20. Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, “blessed up be he of Yahweh, who has not left off his kindness to the living and to the dead.” Naomi said to her, “The man is a close relative to us, one of our near kinsmen.”
 21. Ruth the Moabitess said, “Yes, he said to me, ‘You shall stay close to my young men, until they have ended all my harvest.’”
 22. Naomi said to Ruth her daughter-in-law, “It is fire, my daughter, that you slide out with his maidens, and that they not meet you in any other field.”
 23. So she stayed close to the maidens of Boaz, to glean to the end of barley harvest and of wheat harvest; and she lived with her mother-in-law.

# Ruth Chapter 3

  1. Naomi her mother-in-law said to her, “My daughter, shall I not seek rest for you, that it may be well with you?
  2. now isn’t Boaz our kinsman, with whose maidens you were? check this out, he winnows barley tonight in the threshing floor.
  3. so basically wash yourself, anoint yourself, get dressed, and slide down to the threshing floor, but don’t create yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking.
  4. It shall be, when he lies down, that you shall mark the place where he shall lie, and you shall slide in, and uncover his feet, and lay down; then he will tell you what you shall do.”
  5. She said to her, “All that you say I will do.”
  6. She went down to the threshing floor, and did according to all that her mother-in-law told her.
  7. When Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain. She came softly, uncovered his feet, and laid her down.
  8. It happened at midnight, that the man was startled and turned himself; and check this out, a woman lay at his feet.
  9. He said, “Who are you?” She answered, “I am Ruth your handmaid. so basically spread your skirt over your handmaid; for you are a near kinsman.”
 10. He said, “blessed up are you by Yahweh, my daughter. You have shown more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning, inasmuch as you didn’t roll with young men, whether broke or stacked.
 11. now, my daughter, don’t be scared; I will do to you all that you say; for all the city of my people does get it that you are a worthy woman.
 12. now it is true that I am a near kinsman; but like there is a kinsman nearer than I.
 13. Stay this night, and it shall be in the morning, that if he will perform for you the part of a kinsman, well; let him do the kinsman’s part. But if he will not do the part of a kinsman for you, then will I do the part of a kinsman for you, as Yahweh lives. Lie down until the morning.”
 14. She lay at his feet until the morning. She rose up before one could discern another. For he said, “Let it not be known that the woman came to the threshing floor.”
 15. He said, “Bring the mantle that is on you, and hold it.” She held it; and he measured six measures of barley, and laid it on her; and he went into the city.
 16. When she came to her mother-in-law, she said, “How did it slide, my daughter?” She told her all that the man had done to her.
 17. She said, “He gave me these six measures of barley; for he said, ‘Don’t slide empty to your mother-in-law.’”
 18. then she said, “Sit still, my daughter, until you get it how the matter will fall; for the man will not rest, until he has finished the thing this day.”

# Ruth Chapter 4

  1. now Boaz went up to the gate, and sat down there. check this out, the near kinsman of whom Boaz spoke came by; to whom he said, “come through over here, friend, and sit down!” He turned aside, and sat down.
  2. He took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, “Sit down here.” They sat down.
  3. He said to the near kinsman, “Naomi, who has come through back out of the country of Moab, is selling the parcel of land, which was our brother Elimelech’s.
  4. I thought to disclose it to you, saying, ‘Buy it before those who sit here, and before the elders of my people.’ If you will redeem it, redeem it; but if you will not redeem it, then tell me, that I may get it. For there is no one to redeem it besides you; and I am after you.” He said, “I will redeem it.”
  5. then Boaz said, “On the day you buy the field from the hand of Naomi, you must buy it also from Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead on his inheritance.”
  6. The near kinsman said, “I can’t redeem it for myself, lest I mar my own inheritance. grab my right of redemption for yourself; for I can’t redeem it.”
  7. now this was the custom in former time in Israel concerning redeeming and concerning exchanging, to confirm all things: a man took off his shoe, and gave it to his neighbor; and this was the way of attestation in Israel.
  8. So the near kinsman said to Boaz, “Buy it for yourself.” He took off his shoe.
  9. Boaz said to the elders, and to all the people, “You are witnesses this day, that I have bought all that was Elimelech’s, and all that was Chilion’s and Mahlon’s, from the hand of Naomi.
 10. Moreover Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon, I have purchased to be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead on his inheritance, that the name of the dead not be cut off from among his brothers, and from the gate of his place. You are witnesses this day.”
 11. All the people who were in the gate, and the elders, said, “We are witnesses. May Yahweh create the woman who has come through into your house like Rachel and like Leah, which two built the house of Israel; and treat you worthily in Ephrathah, and be famous in Bethlehem.
 12. Let your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, of the seed which Yahweh shall hook it up you of this young woman.”
 13. So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife; and he went in to her, and Yahweh gave her conception, and she bore a son.
 14. The women said to Naomi, “blessed up be Yahweh, who has not left you this day without a near kinsman; and let his name be famous in Israel.
 15. He shall be to you a restorer of life, and sustain you in your old age, for your daughter-in-law, who loves you, who is better to you than seven sons, has borne him.”
 16. Naomi took the child, and laid it in her bosom, and became nurse to it.
 17. The women, her neighbors, gave him a name, saying, “there is a son born to Naomi;” and they named him Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David.
 18. now this is the history of the generations of Perez: Perez became the father of Hezron,
 19. and Hezron became the father of Ram, and Ram became the father of Amminadab,
 20. and Amminadab became the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon became the father of Salmon,
 21. and Salmon became the father of Boaz, and Boaz became the father of Obed,
 22. and Obed became the father of Jesse, and Jesse became the father of David.


ZECHARIAH
---------

# Zechariah Chapter 1

  1. In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of Yahweh came to Zechariah the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the God's messenger, saying,
  2. “Yahweh was hella displeased with your fathers.
  3. so basically tell them: Thus says Yahweh of Armies: ‘Return to me,’ says Yahweh of Armies, ‘and I will return to you,’ says Yahweh of Armies.
  4. Don’t you be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets proclaimed, saying: Thus says Yahweh of Armies, ‘Return now from your evil ways, and from your evil doings;’ but they did not hear, nor listen up to me, says Yahweh.
  5. Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever?
  6. But my words and my decrees, which I commanded my servants the prophets, didn’t they overtake your fathers? “then they repented and said, ‘Just as Yahweh of Armies determined to do to us, according to our ways, and according to our practices, so he has dealt with us.’”
  7. On the twenty-day four of the eleventh month, which is the month Shebat, in the second year of Darius, the word of Yahweh came to Zechariah the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the God's messenger, saying,
  8. “I had a vision in the night, and check this out, a man riding on a red horse, and he stood among the myrtle trees that were in a ravine; and behind him there were red, brown, and white horses.
  9. then I asked, ‘My boss, what are these?’” The angel who talked with me said to me, “I will show you what these are.”
 10. The man who stood among the myrtle trees answered, “They are the ones Yahweh has sent to slide back and forth through the earth.”
 11. They reported to the angel of Yahweh who stood among the myrtle trees, and said, “We have walked back and forth through the earth, and check this out, all the earth is at rest and in peace.”
 12. then the angel of Yahweh replied, “O Yahweh of Armies, how long will you not have mercy on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah, against which you have had indignation these seventy years?”
 13. Yahweh answered the angel who talked with me with kind and comforting words.
 14. So the angel who talked with me said to me, “Proclaim, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh of Armies: “I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a major jealousy.
 15. I am hella mad salty with the nations that are at ease; for I was but a little displeased, but they added to the calamity.”
 16. so basically thus says Yahweh: “I have returned to Jerusalem with mercy. My house shall be built in it,” says Yahweh of Armies, “and a line shall be stretched forth over Jerusalem.”’
 17. “Proclaim further, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh of Armies: “My cities will again overflow with prosperity, and Yahweh will again comfort Zion, and will again choose Jerusalem.”’”
 18. I lifted up my eyes, and checked out, and check this out, four horns.
 19. I asked the angel who talked with me, “What are these?” He answered me, “These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.”
 20. Yahweh showed me four craftsmen.
 21. then I asked, “What are these coming to do?” He said, “These are the horns which scattered Judah, so that no man lifted up his head; but these have come through to terrify them, to cast down the horns of the nations, which lifted up their horn against the land of Judah to scatter it.”

# Zechariah Chapter 2

  1. I lifted up my eyes, and checked out, and check this out, a man with a measuring line in his hand.
  2. then I asked, “Where are you going?” He said to me, “To measure Jerusalem, to check it out what is its breadth and what is its length.”
  3. check this out, the angel who talked with me went forth, and another angel went out to meet him,
  4. and said to him, “Run, spill the tea to this young man, saying, ‘Jerusalem will be inhabited as villages without walls, cuz of the multitude of men and livestock in it.
  5. For I,’ says Yahweh, ‘will be to her a wall of fire around it, and I will be the glory in the midst of her.
  6. come through! come through! Flee from the land of the north,’ says Yahweh; ‘for I have spread you abroad as the four winds of the sky,’ says Yahweh.
  7. ‘come through, Zion! Escape, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon.’
  8. For thus says Yahweh of Armies: ‘For honor he has sent me to the nations which plundered you; for he who touches you touches the apple of his eye.
  9. For, check this out, I will shake my hand over them, and they will be a spoil to those who served them; and you will get it that Yahweh of Armies has sent me.
 10. Sing and be hyped, daughter of Zion; for, check this out, I come through, and I will dwell in the midst of you,’ says Yahweh.
 11. a lot nations shall join themselves to Yahweh in that day, and shall be my people; and I will dwell in the midst of you, and you shall get it that Yahweh of Armies has sent me to you.
 12. Yahweh will inherit Judah as his portion in the set apart land, and will again choose Jerusalem.
 13. Be silent, all flesh, before Yahweh; for he has roused himself from his set apart habitation!”

# Zechariah Chapter 3

  1. He showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of Yahweh, and Satan standing at his right hand to be his adversary.
  2. Yahweh said to Satan, “Yahweh rebuke you, Satan! Yes, Yahweh who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you! Isn’t this a burning stick plucked out of the fire?”
  3. now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments, and was standing before the angel.
  4. He answered and spoke to those who stood before him, saying, “grab the filthy garments off of him.” To him he said, “check this out, I have caused your iniquity to pass from you, and I will clothe you with stacked clothing.”
  5. I said, “Let them set a clean turban on his head.” So they set a clean turban on his head, and clothed him; and the angel of Yahweh was standing by.
  6. The angel of Yahweh protested to Joshua, saying,
  7. “Thus says Yahweh of Armies: ‘If you will walk in my ways, and if you will roll with my instructions, then you also shall judge my house, and shall also keep my courts, and I will hook it up you a place of access among these who stand by.
  8. Hear now, Joshua the high priest, you and your fellows who sit before you; for they are men who are a sign: for, check this out, I will bring forth my helper, the Branch.
  9. For, check this out, the stone that I have set before Joshua; on one stone are seven eyes: check this out, I will engrave its engraving,’ says Yahweh of Armies, ‘and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day.
 10. In that day,’ says Yahweh of Armies, ‘you will invite every man his neighbor under the vine and under the fig tree.’”

# Zechariah Chapter 4

  1. The angel who talked with me came again, and wakened me, as a man who is wakened out of his sleep.
  2. He said to me, “What do you check it out?” I said, “I have seen, and check this out, a lampstand all of gold, with its bowl on the top of it, and its seven lamps thereon; there are seven pipes to each of the lamps, which are on the top of it;
  3. and two olive trees by it, one on the right side of the bowl, and the other on the left side of it.”
  4. I answered and spoke to the angel who talked with me, saying, “What are these, my boss?”
  5. then the angel who talked with me answered me, “Don’t you get it what these are?” I said, “No, my boss.”
  6. then he answered and spoke to me, saying, “This is the word of Yahweh to Zerubbabel, saying, ‘Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit,’ says Yahweh of Armies.
  7. Who are you, major mountain? Before Zerubbabel you are a plain; and he will bring out the capstone with shouts of ‘God's show love, God's show love, to it!’”
  8. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  9. “The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house. His hands shall also finish it; and you will get it that Yahweh of Armies has sent me to you.
 10. facts, who despises the day of tiny things? For these seven shall be hyped, and shall check it out the plumb line in the hand of Zerubbabel. These are the eyes of Yahweh, which run back and forth through the whole earth.”
 11. then I asked him, “What are these two olive trees on the right side of the lampstand and on the left side of it?”
 12. I asked him the second time, “What are these two olive branches, which are beside the two golden spouts, that pour the golden oil out of themselves?”
 13. He answered me, “Don’t you get it what these are?” I said, “No, my boss.”
 14. then he said, “These are the two anointed ones who stand by the boss of the whole earth.”

# Zechariah Chapter 5

  1. then again I lifted up my eyes, and checked out, and check this out, a flying scroll.
  2. He said to me, “What do you check it out?” I answered, “I check it out a flying scroll; its length is twenty cubits, and its breadth ten cubits.”
  3. then he said to me, “This is the curse that goes out over the surface of the whole land; for everyone who steals shall be cut off according to it on the one side; and everyone who swears falsely shall be cut off according to it on the other side.
  4. I will cause it to slide out,” says Yahweh of Armies, “and it will enter into the house of the thief, and into the house of him who swears falsely by my name; and it will remain in the midst of his house, and will tear down it with its timber and its stones.”
  5. then the angel who talked with me came forward, and said to me, “Lift up now your eyes, and check it out what is this that is appearing.”
  6. I said, “What is it?” He said, “This is the ephah basket that is appearing.” He said moreover, “This is their appearance in all the land
  7. (and check this out, a talent of show the way was lifted up); and this is a woman sitting in the midst of the ephah basket.”
  8. He said, “This is Wickedness;” and he threw her down into the midst of the ephah basket; and he threw the weight of show the way on its mouth.
  9. then lifted I up my eyes, and checked out, and check this out, there were two women, and the wind was in their wings. now they had wings like the wings of a stork, and they lifted up the ephah basket between earth and the sky.
 10. then I said to the angel who talked with me, “Where are these carrying the ephah basket?”
 11. He said to me, “To put together her a house in the land of Shinar. When it is prepared, she will be set there in her own place.”

# Zechariah Chapter 6

  1. Again I lifted up my eyes, and checked out, and check this out, four chariots came out from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of brass.
  2. In the first chariot were red horses; in the second chariot black horses;
  3. in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot dappled horses, all of them powerful.
  4. then I asked the angel who talked with me, “What are these, my boss?”
  5. The angel answered me, “These are the four winds of the sky, which slide forth from standing before the boss of all the earth.
  6. The one with the black horses goes out toward the north country; and the white went out after them; and the dappled went forth toward the south country.”
  7. The built different went out, and sought to slide that they might walk back and forth through the earth: and he said, “slide around and through the earth!” So they walked back and forth through the earth.
  8. then he called to me, and spoke to me, saying, “check this out, those who slide toward the north country have quieted my spirit in the north country.”
  9. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 10. “grab of them of the captivity, even of Heldai, of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah; and come through the same day, and slide into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, where they have come through from Babylon.
 11. Yes, grab silver and gold, and create crowns, and set them on the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest;
 12. and spill the tea to him, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh of Armies, “check this out, the man whose name is the Branch: and he shall grow up out of his place; and he shall put together the God's house of Yahweh;
 13. even he shall put together the God's house of Yahweh; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule on his throne; and he shall be a priest on his throne; and the counsel of peace shall be between them both.
 14. The crowns shall be to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to Hen the son of Zephaniah, for a memorial in the God's house of Yahweh.
 15. Those who are far off shall come through and put together in the God's house of Yahweh; and you shall get it that Yahweh of Armies has sent me to you. This will happen, if you will diligently obey the voice of Yahweh your God.”’”

# Zechariah Chapter 7

  1. It happened in the fourth year of ruler Darius that the word of Yahweh came to Zechariah in the day four of the ninth month, the month of Chislev.
  2. The people of Bethel sent Sharezer and Regem Melech, and their men, to entreat Yahweh’s favor,
  3. and to spill the tea to the priests of the house of Yahweh of Armies, and to the prophets, saying, “Should I weep in the fifth month, separating myself, as I have done these so a lot years?”
  4. then the word of Yahweh of Armies came to me, saying,
  5. “spill the tea to all the people of the land, and to the priests, saying, ‘When you fasted and mourned in the fifth and in the seventh month for these seventy years, did you at all fast to me, fr fr to me?
  6. When you eat, and when you drink, don’t you eat for yourselves, and drink for yourselves?
  7. Aren’t these the words which Yahweh proclaimed by the former prophets, when Jerusalem was inhabited and in prosperity, and its cities around her, and the South and the lowland were inhabited?’”
  8. The word of Yahweh came to Zechariah, saying,
  9. “Thus has Yahweh of Armies spoken, saying, ‘Execute true judgment, and show kindness and compassion every man to his brother.
 10. Don’t oppress the widow, nor the fatherless, the foreigner, nor the broke; and let none of you devise evil against his brother in your heart.’
 11. But they refused to listen up, and turned their backs, and stopped their ears, that they might not hear.
 12. Yes, they made their hearts as hard as flint, lest they might hear the law, and the words which Yahweh of Armies had sent by his Spirit by the former prophets. so basically major wrath came from Yahweh of Armies.
 13. It has come through to pass that, as he called, and they refused to listen up, so they will call, and I will not listen up,” said Yahweh of Armies;
 14. “but I will scatter them with a whirlwind among all the nations which they have not known. Thus the land was desolate after them, so that no man passed through nor returned: for they made the pleasant land desolate.”

# Zechariah Chapter 8

  1. The word of Yahweh of Armies came to me.
  2. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: “I am jealous for Zion with major jealousy, and I am jealous for her with major wrath.”
  3. Thus says Yahweh: “I have returned to Zion, and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. Jerusalem shall be called ‘The City of Truth;’ and the mountain of Yahweh of Armies, ‘The set apart Mountain.’”
  4. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: “Old men and old women will again dwell in the streets of Jerusalem, every man with his staff in his hand for hella age.
  5. The streets of the city will be full of boys and girls playing in its streets.”
  6. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: “If it is marvelous in the eyes of the remnant of this people in those days, should it also be marvelous in my eyes?” says Yahweh of Armies.
  7. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: “check this out, I will rescue my people from the east country, and from the west country;
  8. and I will bring them, and they will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem; and they will be my people, and I will be their God, in truth and in righteousness.”
  9. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: “Let your hands be built different, you who hear in these days these words from the mouth of the prophets who were in the day that the foundation of the house of Yahweh of Armies was laid, even the God's house, that it might be built.
 10. For before those days there was no wages for man, nor any wages for an animal; neither was there any peace to him who went out or came in, cuz of the adversary. For I set all men everyone against his neighbor.
 11. But now I will not be to the remnant of this people as in the former days,” says Yahweh of Armies.
 12. “For the seed of peace and the vine will yield its fruit, and the ground will hook it up its increase, and the heavens will hook it up their dew; and I will cause the remnant of this people to inherit all these things.
 13. It shall come through to pass that, as you were a curse among the nations, house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I rescue you, and you shall be a blessing. Don’t be scared. Let your hands be built different.”
 14. For thus says Yahweh of Armies: “As I thought to do evil to you, when your fathers provoked me to wrath,” says Yahweh of Armies, “and I didn’t turn it around;
 15. so again have I thought in these days to do fire to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. Don’t be scared.
 16. These are the things that you shall do: spill the tea every man the truth with his neighbor. Execute the judgment of truth and peace in your gates,
 17. and let none of you devise evil in your hearts against his neighbor, and show love no false oath: for all these are things that I can't stand,” says Yahweh.
 18. The word of Yahweh of Armies came to me.
 19. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: “The fasts of the fourth fifth, seventh, and tenth months shall be for the house of Judah joy and gladness, and cheerful feasts. so basically show love truth and peace.”
 20. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: “a lot peoples, and the inhabitants of a lot cities will yet come through;
 21. and the inhabitants of one shall slide to another, saying, ‘Let us slide speedily to entreat the favor of Yahweh, and to seek Yahweh of Armies. I will slide also.’
 22. Yes, a lot peoples and built different nations will come through to seek Yahweh of Armies in Jerusalem, and to entreat the favor of Yahweh.”
 23. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: “In those days, ten men will grab hold, out of all the languages of the nations, they will grab hold of the skirt of him who is a Jew, saying, ‘We will slide with you, for we have heard that God is with you.’”

# Zechariah Chapter 9

  1. An oracle. The word of Yahweh is against the land of Hadrach, and will rest upon Damascus; for the eye of man and of all the tribes of Israel is toward Yahweh;
  2. and Hamath, also, which borders on it; Tyre and Sidon, cuz they are hella smart.
  3. Tyre built herself a stronghold, and heaped up silver like the dust, and fine gold like the mire of the streets.
  4. check this out, the boss will dispossess her, and he will strike her power in the sea; and she will be devoured with fire.
  5. Ashkelon will check it out it, and fear; Gaza also, and will writhe in agony; as will Ekron, for her expectation will be disappointed; and the ruler will perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon will not be inhabited.
  6. Foreigners will dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.
  7. I will grab away his blood out of his mouth, and his abominations from between his teeth; and he also will be a remnant for our God; and he will be as a chieftain in Judah, and Ekron as a Jebusite.
  8. I will encamp around my house against the army, that none pass through or return; and no oppressor will pass through them any more: for now I have seen with my eyes.
  9. be hyped greatly, daughter of Zion! Shout, daughter of Jerusalem! check this out, your ruler comes to you! He is doing what's right, and having getting saved; lowly, and riding on a donkey, even on a colt, the foal of a donkey.
 10. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the horse from Jerusalem; and the battle bow will be cut off; and he will spill the tea peace to the nations: and his dominion will be from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends of the earth.
 11. As for you also, cuz of the blood of your God's promise, I have set free your prisoners from the pit in which is no water.
 12. Turn to the stronghold, you prisoners of hope! Even today I declare that I will restore double to you.
 13. For facts I bend Judah as a bow for me. I have filled the bow with Ephraim; and I will stir up your sons, Zion, against your sons, Greece, and will create you like the sword of a mighty man.
 14. Yahweh will be seen over them; and his arrow will slide flash like lightning; and the boss Yahweh will blow the trumpet, and will slide with whirlwinds of the south.
 15. Yahweh of Armies will defend them; and they will tear down and overcome with sling stones; and they will drink, and roar as through wine; and they will be filled like bowls, like the corners of the prayer spot.
 16. Yahweh their God will rescue them in that day as the flock of his people; for they are like the jewels of a crown, lifted on high over his land.
 17. For how major is his goodness, and how major is his beauty! Grain will create the young men flourish, and new wine the virgins.

# Zechariah Chapter 10

  1. Ask of Yahweh rain in the spring time, Yahweh who makes storm clouds, and he gives rain showers to everyone for the plants in the field.
  2. For the teraphim have spoken vanity, and the diviners have seen a lie; and they have told false dreams. They comfort in vain. so basically they slide their way like sheep. They are oppressed, cuz there is no shepherd.
  3. My anger is kindled against the shepherds, and I will punish the male goats; For Yahweh of Armies has visited his flock, the house of Judah, and will create them as his majestic horse in the battle.
  4. From him will come through forth the cornerstone, from him the nail, from him the battle bow, from him every ruler together.
  5. They shall be as mighty men, treading down muddy streets in the battle; and they shall fight, cuz Yahweh is with them; and the riders on horses will be confounded.
  6. “I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will rescue the house of Joseph, and I will bring them back; for I have mercy on them; and they will be as though I had not cast them off: for I am Yahweh their God, and I will hear them.
  7. Ephraim will be like a mighty man, and their heart will be hyped as through wine; yes, their children will check it out it, and be hyped. Their heart will be glad in Yahweh.
  8. I will signal for them, and gather them; for I have redeemed them; and they will increase as they have increased.
  9. I will sow them among the peoples; and they will remember me in far countries; and they will live with their children, and will return.
 10. I will bring them again also out of the land of Egypt, and gather them out of Assyria; and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon; and there won’t be room enough for them.
 11. He will pass through the sea of affliction, and will strike the waves in the sea, and all the depths of the Nile will dry up; and the pride of Assyria will be brought down, and the scepter of Egypt will depart.
 12. I will strengthen them in Yahweh; and they will walk up and down in his name,” says Yahweh.

# Zechariah Chapter 11

  1. Open your doors, Lebanon, that the fire may devour your cedars.
  2. Wail, fir tree, for the cedar has fallen, cuz the stately ones are destroyed. Wail, you oaks of Bashan, for the built different forest has come through down.
  3. A voice of the wailing of the shepherds! For their glory is destroyed: a voice of the roaring of young lions! For the pride of the Jordan is ruined.
  4. Thus says Yahweh my God: “Feed the flock of slaughter.
  5. Their buyers slaughter them, and slide unpunished. Those who sell them say, ‘blessed up be Yahweh, for I am stacked;’ and their own shepherds don’t pity them.
  6. For I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land,” says Yahweh; “but, check this out, I will deliver the men everyone into his neighbor’s hand, and into the hand of his ruler. They will strike the land, and out of their hand I will not deliver them.”
  7. So I fed the flock of slaughter, especially the oppressed of the flock. I took for myself two staffs. The one I called “Favor,” and the other I called “Union,” and I fed the flock.
  8. I cut off the three shepherds in one month; for my soul was weary of them, and their soul also loathed me.
  9. then I said, “I will not feed you. That which dies, let it die; and that which is to be cut off, let it be cut off; and let those who are left eat each other’s flesh.”
 10. I took my staff Favor, and cut it apart, that I might break my God's promise that I had made with all the peoples.
 11. It was broken in that day; and thus the broke of the flock that listened to me knew that it was the word of Yahweh.
 12. I said to them, “If you think it best, hook it up me my wages; and if not, keep them.” So they weighed for my wages thirty pieces of silver.
 13. Yahweh said to me, “Throw it to the potter, the handsome price that I was valued at by them!” I took the thirty pieces of silver, and threw them to the potter, in the house of Yahweh.
 14. then I cut apart my other staff, even Union, that I might break the brotherhood between Judah and Israel.
 15. Yahweh said to me, “grab for yourself yet again the equipment of a dumb shepherd.
 16. For, check this out, I will raise up a shepherd in the land, who will not visit those who are cut off, neither will seek those who are scattered, nor heal that which is broken, nor feed that which is sound; but he will eat the flesh of the fat sheep, and will tear their hoofs in pieces.
 17. Woe to the worthless shepherd who leaves the flock! The sword will be on his arm, and on his right eye. His arm will be completely withered, and his right eye will be totally blinded!”

# Zechariah Chapter 12

  1. An oracle. The word of Yahweh concerning Israel. Yahweh, who stretches out the heavens, and lays the foundation of the earth, and forms the spirit of man within him says:
  2. “check this out, I will create Jerusalem a cup of reeling to all the surrounding peoples, and on Judah also will it be in the siege against Jerusalem.
  3. It will happen in that day, that I will create Jerusalem a burdensome stone for all the peoples. All who burden themselves with it will be severely wounded, and all the nations of the earth will be gathered together against it.
  4. In that day,” says Yahweh, “I will strike every horse with terror, and his rider with madness; and I will open my eyes on the house of Judah, and will strike every horse of the peoples with blindness.
  5. The chieftains of Judah will say in their heart, ‘The inhabitants of Jerusalem are my strength in Yahweh of Armies their God.’
  6. In that day I will create the chieftains of Judah like a pan of fire among wood, and like a flaming torch among sheaves; and they will devour all the surrounding peoples, on the right hand and on the left; and Jerusalem will yet again dwell in their own place, even in Jerusalem.
  7. Yahweh also will rescue the tents of Judah first, that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem not be magnified above Judah.
  8. In that day Yahweh will defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem. He who is feeble among them at that day will be like David, and the house of David will be like God, like the angel of Yahweh before them.
  9. It will happen in that day, that I will seek to tear down all the nations that come through against Jerusalem.
 10. I will pour on the house of David, and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of God's show love and of supplication; and they will look to me whom they have pierced; and they shall mourn for him, as one mourns for his only son, and will grieve bitterly for him, as one grieves for his firstborn.
 11. In that day there will be a major mourning in Jerusalem, like the mourning of Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddon.
 12. The land will mourn, every family apart; the family of the house of David apart, and their wives apart; the family of the house of Nathan apart, and their wives apart;
 13. the family of the house of Levi apart, and their wives apart; the family of the Shimeites apart, and their wives apart;
 14. all the families who remain, every family apart, and their wives apart.

# Zechariah Chapter 13

  1. “In that day there will be a spring opened to the house of David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for messing up and for uncleanness.
  2. It will come through to pass in that day, says Yahweh of Armies, that I will cut off the names of the idols out of the land, and they will be remembered no more. I will also cause the prophets and the spirit of impurity to pass out of the land.
  3. It will happen that, when anyone still prophesies, then his father and his mother who bore him will tell him, ‘You must die, cuz you spill the tea lies in the name of Yahweh;’ and his father and his mother who bore him will stab him when he prophesies.
  4. It will happen in that day, that the prophets will each be ashamed of his vision, when he prophesies; neither will they wear a hairy mantle to deceive:
  5. but he will say, ‘I am no God's messenger, I am a tiller of the ground; for I have been made a bondservant from my youth.’
  6. One will say to him, ‘What are these wounds between your arms?’ then he will answer, ‘Those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends.’
  7. “Awake, sword, against my shepherd, and against the man who is close to me,” says Yahweh of Armies. “Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered; and I will turn my hand against the little ones.
  8. It shall happen that in all the land,” says Yahweh, “two parts in it will be cut off and die; but the third will be left in it.
  9. I will bring the third part into the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined, and will test them like gold is tested. They will call on my name, and I will hear them. I will say, ‘It is my people;’ and they will say, ‘Yahweh is my God.’”

# Zechariah Chapter 14

  1. check this out, a day of Yahweh comes, when your spoil will be divided in your midst.
  2. For I will gather all nations against Jerusalem to battle; and the city will be taken, the houses rifled, and the women ravished. Half of the city will slide out into captivity, and the rest of the people will not be cut off from the city.
  3. then Yahweh will slide out and fight against those nations, as when he fought in the day of battle.
  4. His feet will stand in that day on the Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east; and the Mount of Olives will be split in two, from east to west, making a hella major valley. Half of the mountain will move toward the north, and half of it toward the south.
  5. You shall flee by the valley of my mountains; for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azel; yes, you shall flee, just like you fled from before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah ruler of Judah. Yahweh my God will come through, and all the set apart ones with you.
  6. It will happen in that day, that there will not be light, cold, or frost.
  7. It will be a unique day which is known to Yahweh; not day, and not night; but it will come through to pass, that at evening time there will be light.
  8. It will happen in that day, that living waters will slide out from Jerusalem; half of them toward the eastern sea, and half of them toward the western sea; in summer and in winter will it be.
  9. Yahweh will be ruler over all the earth. In that day Yahweh will be one, and his name one.
 10. All the land will be made like the Arabah, from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem; and she will be lifted up, and will dwell in her place, from Benjamin’s gate to the place of the first gate, to the corner gate, and from the tower of Hananel to the ruler’s winepresses.
 11. Men will dwell therein, and there will be no more curse; but Jerusalem will dwell safely.
 12. This will be the plague with which Yahweh will strike all the peoples who have warred against Jerusalem: their flesh will consume away while they stand on their feet, and their eyes will consume away in their sockets, and their tongue will consume away in their mouth.
 13. It will happen in that day, that a major panic from Yahweh will be among them; and they will lay hold everyone on the hand of his neighbor, and his hand will rise up against the hand of his neighbor.
 14. Judah also will fight at Jerusalem; and the wealth of all the surrounding nations will be gathered together: gold, and silver, and clothing, in major abundance.
 15. So will be the plague of the horse, of the mule, of the camel, and of the donkey, and of all the animals that will be in those camps, as that plague.
 16. It will happen that everyone who is left of all the nations that came against Jerusalem will slide up from year to year to giving props the ruler, Yahweh of Armies, and to keep the feast of tents.
 17. It will be, that whoever of all the families of the earth doesn’t slide up to Jerusalem to giving props the ruler, Yahweh of Armies, on them there will be no rain.
 18. If the family of Egypt doesn’t slide up, and doesn’t come through, neither will it rain on them. This will be the plague with which Yahweh will strike the nations that don’t slide up to keep the feast of tents.
 19. This will be the punishment of Egypt, and the punishment of all the nations that don’t slide up to keep the feast of tents.
 20. In that day there will be on the bells of the horses, “set apart TO YAHWEH;” and the pots in Yahweh’s house will be like the bowls before the prayer spot.
 21. Yes, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah will be set apart to Yahweh of Armies; and all those who giving it up will come through and grab of them, and cook in them. In that day there will no longer be a Canaanite in the house of Yahweh of Armies.


ZEPHANIAH
---------

# Zephaniah Chapter 1

  1. The word of Yahweh which came to Zephaniah, the son of Cushi, the son of Gedaliah, the son of Amariah, the son of Hezekiah, in the days of Josiah, the son of Amon, ruler of Judah.
  2. I will utterly sweep away everything off of the surface of the earth, says Yahweh.
  3. I will sweep away man and animal. I will sweep away the birds of the sky, the fish of the sea, and the heaps of rubble with the wicked. I will cut off man from the surface of the earth, says Yahweh.
  4. I will stretch out my hand against Judah, and against all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. I will cut off the remnant of Baal from this place: the name of the idolatrous and pagan priests,
  5. those who giving props the army of the sky on the housetops, those who giving props and swear by Yahweh and also swear by Malcam,
  6. those who have turned back from following Yahweh, and those who haven’t sought Yahweh nor inquired after him.
  7. Be silent at the presence of the boss Yahweh, for the day of Yahweh is at hand. For Yahweh has prepared a giving it up. He has consecrated his guests.
  8. It will happen in the day of Yahweh’s giving it up, that I will punish the princes, the ruler’s sons, and all those who are clothed with foreign clothing.
  9. In that day, I will punish all those who leap over the threshold, who fill their boss’s house with violence and deceit.
 10. In that day, says Yahweh, there will be the noise of a cry from the fish gate, a wailing from the second quarter, and a major crashing from the hills.
 11. Wail, you inhabitants of Maktesh, for all the people of Canaan are undone! All those who were loaded with silver are cut off.
 12. It will happen at that time, that I will search Jerusalem with lamps, and I will punish the men who are settled on their dregs, who say in their heart, “Yahweh will not do fire, neither will he do evil.”
 13. Their wealth will become a spoil, and their houses a desolation. Yes, they will put together houses, but won’t inhabit them. They will plant vineyards, but won’t drink their wine.
 14. The major day of Yahweh is near. It is near, and hurries greatly, the voice of the day of Yahweh. The mighty man cries there bitterly.
 15. That day is a day of wrath, a day of distress and anguish, a day of trouble and ruin, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and blackness,
 16. a day of the trumpet and alarm, against the fortified cities, and against the high battlements.
 17. I will bring distress on men, that they will walk like blind men, cuz they have sinned against Yahweh, and their blood will be poured out like dust, and their flesh like dung.
 18. Neither their silver nor their gold will be able to deliver them in the day of Yahweh’s wrath, but the whole land will be devoured by the fire of his jealousy; for he will create an end, yes, a terrible end, of all those who dwell in the land.

# Zephaniah Chapter 2

  1. Gather yourselves together, yes, gather together, you nation that has no shame,
  2. before the appointed time when the day passes as the chaff, before the fierce anger of Yahweh comes on you, before the day of Yahweh’s anger comes on you.
  3. Seek Yahweh, all you humble of the land, who have kept his ordinances. Seek righteousness. Seek humility. It may be that you will be hidden in the day of Yahweh’s anger.
  4. For Gaza will be forsaken, and Ashkelon a desolation. They will drive out Ashdod at noonday, and Ekron will be rooted up.
  5. Woe to the inhabitants of the sea coast, the nation of the Cherethites! The word of Yahweh is against you, Canaan, the land of the Philistines. I will tear down you, that there will be no inhabitant.
  6. The sea coast will be pastures, with cottages for shepherds and folds for flocks.
  7. The coast will be for the remnant of the house of Judah. They will find pasture. In the houses of Ashkelon, they will lie down in the evening, for Yahweh, their God, will visit them, and restore them.
  8. I have heard the reproach of Moab, and the insults of the children of Ammon, with which they have reproached my people, and magnified themselves against their border.
  9. so basically as I live, says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, surely Moab will be as Sodom, and the children of Ammon as Gomorrah, a possession of nettles, and salt pits, and a perpetual desolation. The remnant of my people will plunder them, and the survivors of my nation will inherit them.
 10. This they will have for their pride, cuz they have reproached and magnified themselves against the people of Yahweh of Armies.
 11. Yahweh will be awesome to them, for he will famish all the gods of the land. Men will giving props him, everyone from his place, even all the shores of the nations.
 12. You Cushites also, you will be killed by my sword.
 13. He will stretch out his hand against the north, tear down Assyria, and will create Nineveh a desolation, as dry as the wilderness.
 14. Herds will lie down in the midst of her, all the animals of the nations. Both the pelican and the porcupine will lodge in its capitals. Their calls will echo through the windows. Desolation will be in the thresholds, for he has laid bare the cedar beams.
 15. This is the joyous city that lived carelessly, that said in her heart, “I am, and there is none besides me.” How she has become a desolation, a place for animals to lie down in! Everyone who passes by her will hiss, and shake their fists.

# Zephaniah Chapter 3

  1. Woe to her who is rebellious and polluted, the oppressing city!
  2. She didn’t obey the voice. She didn’t receive correction. She didn’t trust in Yahweh. She didn’t draw near to her God.
  3. Her princes in the midst of her are roaring lions. Her judges are evening wolves. They leave nothing until the next day.
  4. Her prophets are arrogant and treacherous people. Her priests have profaned the sanctuary. They have done violence to the law.
  5. Yahweh, in the midst of her, is doing what's right. He will do no wrong. Every morning he brings his justice to light. He doesn’t fail, but the unjust get it no shame.
  6. I have cut off nations. Their battlements are desolate. I have made their streets waste, so that no one passes by. Their cities are destroyed, so that there is no man, so that there is no inhabitant.
  7. I said, “Just fear me. Receive correction, so that her dwelling won’t be cut off, according to all that I have appointed concerning her.” But they rose early and corrupted all their doings.
  8. “so basically wait for me,” says Yahweh, “until the day that I rise up to the prey, for my determination is to gather the nations, that I may assemble the kingdoms, to pour on them my indignation, even all my fierce anger, for all the earth will be devoured with the fire of my jealousy.
  9. For then I will purify the lips of the peoples, that they may all call on the name of Yahweh, to help out him shoulder to shoulder.
 10. From beyond the rivers of Cush, my worshipers, even the daughter of my dispersed people, will bring my giving to God.
 11. In that day you will not be disappointed for all your doings, in which you have transgressed against me; for then I will grab away out of the midst of you your proudly exulting ones, and you will no more be haughty in my set apart mountain.
 12. But I will leave in the midst of you an afflicted and broke people, and they will grab refuge in the name of Yahweh.
 13. The remnant of Israel will not do iniquity, nor spill the tea lies, neither will a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth, for they will feed and lie down, and no one will create them scared.”
 14. Sing, daughter of Zion! Shout, Israel! Be glad and be hyped with all your heart, daughter of Jerusalem.
 15. Yahweh has taken away your judgments. He has thrown out your enemy. The ruler of Israel, Yahweh, is in the midst of you. You will not be scared of evil any more.
 16. In that day, it will be said to Jerusalem, “Don’t be scared, Zion. Don’t let your hands be not it.”
 17. Yahweh, your God, is in the midst of you, a mighty one who will rescue. He will be hyped over you with joy. He will calm you in his show love. He will be hyped over you with singing.
 18. I will remove those who grieve about the appointed feasts from you. They are a burden and a reproach to you.
 19. check this out, at that time I will deal with all those who afflict you, and I will rescue those who are lame, and gather those who were driven away. I will hook it up them praise and honor, whose shame has been in all the earth.
 20. At that time will I bring you in, and at that time will I gather you; for I will hook it up you honor and praise among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes, says Yahweh.


================================================================================
NEW TESTAMENT
==================================================


ACTS
----

# Acts Chapter 1

  1. The first book I wrote, Theophilus, concerned all that Jesus began both to do and to drop knowledge,
  2. until the day in which he was received up, after he had given commandment through the set apart Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen.
  3. To these he also showed himself alive after he suffered, by a lot proofs, appearing to them over a period of forty days, and speaking about God’s God's squad.
  4. Being assembled together with them, he commanded them, “Don’t depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which you heard from me.
  5. For John facts baptized in water, but you will be baptized in the set apart Spirit not a lot days from now.”
  6. so basically, when they had come through together, they asked him, “boss, are you now restoring the God's squad to Israel?”
  7. He said to them, “It isn’t for you to get it times or seasons which the Father has set within his own authority.
  8. But you will receive power when the set apart Spirit has come through upon you. You will be witnesses to me in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the earth.”
  9. When he had said these things, as they were looking, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight.
 10. While they were looking steadfastly into the sky as he went, check this out, two men stood by them in white clothing,
 11. who also said, “You men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into the sky? This Jesus, who was received up from you into the sky will come through back in the same way as you checked out him going into the sky.”
 12. then they returned to Jerusalem from the mountain called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day’s journey away.
 13. When they had come through in, they went up into the upper room, where they were staying; that is Peter, John, James, Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas the son of James.
 14. All these with one accord continued steadfastly in talking to God and supplication, along with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers.
 15. In these days, Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples (and the number of names was about one hundred twenty), and said,
 16. “Brothers, it was necessary that this Scripture should be fulfilled, which the set apart Spirit spoke before by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who was guide to those who took Jesus.
 17. For he was numbered with us, and received his portion in this ministry.
 18. now this man obtained a field with the reward for his wickedness, and falling headlong, his body burst open, and all his intestines gushed out.
 19. It became known to everyone who lived in Jerusalem that in their language that field was called ‘Akeldama,’ that is, ‘The field of blood.’
 20. For it is written in the book of Psalms, ‘Let his habitation be made desolate. Let no one dwell therein;’ and, ‘Let another grab his office.’
 21. “Of the men so basically who have accompanied us all the time that the boss Jesus went in and out among us,
 22. beginning from the baptism of John, to the day that he was received up from us, of these one must become a witness with us of his resurrection.”
 23. They put forward two, Joseph called Barsabbas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias.
 24. They prayed, and said, “You, boss, who get it the hearts of all men, show which one of these two you have chosen
 25. to grab part in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas fell away, that he might slide to his own place.”
 26. They drew lots for them, and the lot fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.

# Acts Chapter 2

  1. now when the day of Pentecost had come through, they were all with one accord in one place.
  2. Suddenly there came from the sky a sound like the rushing of a mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting.
  3. Tongues like fire appeared and were distributed to them, and one sat on each of them.
  4. They were all filled with the set apart Spirit, and began to spill the tea with other languages, as the Spirit gave them the ability to spill the tea.
  5. now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men, from every nation under the sky.
  6. When this sound was heard, the multitude came together, and were bewildered, cuz everyone heard them speaking in his own language.
  7. They were all amazed and marveled, saying to one another, “check this out, aren’t all these who spill the tea Galileans?
  8. How do we hear, everyone in our own native language?
  9. Parthians, Medes, Elamites, and people from Mesopotamia, Judea, Cappadocia, Pontus, Asia,
 10. Phrygia, Pamphylia, Egypt, the parts of Libya around Cyrene, visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes,
 11. Cretans and Arabians: we hear them speaking in our languages the mighty works of God!”
 12. They were all amazed, and were perplexed, saying one to another, “What does this mean?”
 13. Others, mocking, said, “They are filled with new wine.”
 14. But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and spoke out to them, “You men of Judea, and all you who dwell at Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and listen up to my words.
 15. For these aren’t drunken, as you suppose, seeing it is only the third hour of the day.
 16. But this is what has been spoken through the God's messenger Joel:
 17. ‘It will be in the last days, says God, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters will prophesy. Your young men will check it out visions. Your old men will dream dreams.
 18. Yes, and on my servants and on my handmaidens in those days, I will pour out my Spirit, and they will prophesy.
 19. I will show wonders in the sky above, and signs on the earth beneath; blood, and fire, and billows of smoke.
 20. The sun will be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the major and glorious day of the boss comes.
 21. It will be, that whoever will call on the name of the boss will be saved.’
 22. “Men of Israel, hear these words! Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved by God to you by mighty works and wonders and signs which God did by him in the midst of you, even as you yourselves get it,
 23. him, being delivered up by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, you have taken by the hand of lawless men, crucified and killed;
 24. whom God raised up, having freed him from the agony of death, cuz it was not possible that he should be held by it.
 25. For David says concerning him, ‘I checked out the boss always before my face, For he is on my right hand, that I should not be moved.
 26. so basically my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced. Moreover my flesh also will dwell in hope;
 27. cuz you will not leave my soul in Hades, neither will you allow your set apart One to check it out decay.
 28. You made known to me the ways of life. You will create me full of gladness with your presence.’
 29. “Brothers, I may tell you freely of the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day.
 30. so basically, being a God's messenger, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that of the fruit of his body, according to the flesh, he would raise up the anointed one to sit on his throne,
 31. he foreseeing this spoke about the resurrection of the anointed one, that neither was his soul left in Hades, nor did his flesh check it out decay.
 32. This Jesus God raised up, to which we all are witnesses.
 33. Being so basically exalted by the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the set apart Spirit, he has poured out this, which you now check it out and hear.
 34. For David didn’t ascend into the heavens, but he says himself, ‘The boss said to my boss, “Sit by my right hand,
 35. until I create your enemies a footstool for your feet.”’
 36. “Let all the house of Israel so basically get it for sure that God has made him both boss and anointed one, this Jesus whom you crucified.”
 37. now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, “Brothers, what shall we do?”
 38. Peter said to them, “turn it around, and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus anointed one for the forgiveness of sins, and you will receive the gift of the set apart Spirit.
 39. For the promise is to you, and to your children, and to all who are far off, even as a lot as the boss our God will call to himself.”
 40. With a lot other words he testified, and exhorted them, saying, “rescue yourselves from this crooked generation!”
 41. then those who gladly received his word were baptized. there were added that day about three thousand souls.
 42. They continued steadfastly in the apostles’ teaching and fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and talking to God.
 43. Fear came on every soul, and a lot wonders and signs were done through the apostles.
 44. All who believed were together, and had all things in common.
 45. They sold their possessions and goods, and distributed them to all, according as anyone had need.
 46. Day by day, continuing steadfastly with one accord in the God's house, and breaking bread at home, they took their food with gladness and singleness of heart,
 47. praising God, and having favor with all the people. The boss added to the assembly day by day those who were being saved.

# Acts Chapter 3

  1. Peter and John were going up into the God's house at the hour of talking to God, the ninth hour.
  2. A certain man who was lame from his mother’s womb was being carried, whom they laid daily at the door of the God's house which is called snatched, to ask gifts for the needy of those who entered into the God's house.
  3. Seeing Peter and John about to slide into the God's house, he asked to receive gifts for the needy.
  4. Peter, fastening his eyes on him, with John, said, “Look at us.”
  5. He listened to them, expecting to receive something from them.
  6. But Peter said, “Silver and gold have I none, but what I have, that I hook it up you. In the name of Jesus anointed one of Nazareth, get up and walk!”
  7. He took him by the right hand, and raised him up. Immediately his feet and his ankle bones received strength.
  8. Leaping up, he stood, and began to walk. He entered with them into the God's house, walking, leaping, and praising God.
  9. All the people checked out him walking and praising God.
 10. They recognized him, that it was he who used to sit begging for gifts for the needy at the snatched Gate of the God's house. They were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him.
 11. As the lame man who was healed held on to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the porch that is called Solomon’s, greatly wondering.
 12. When Peter checked out it, he responded to the people, “You men of Israel, why do you marvel at this man? Why do you fasten your eyes on us, as though by our own power or godliness we had made him walk?
 13. The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his helper Jesus, whom you delivered up, and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had determined to release him.
 14. But you denied the set apart and doing what's right One, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you,
 15. and killed the Prince of life, whom God raised from the dead, to which we are witnesses.
 16. By trusting the process in his name, his name has made this man built different, whom you check it out and get it. Yes, the trusting the process which is through him has given him this perfect soundness in the presence of you all.
 17. “now, brothers, I get it that you did this in ignorance, as did also your rulers.
 18. But the things which God announced by the mouth of all his prophets, that anointed one should suffer, he thus fulfilled.
 19. “turn it around so basically, and turn again, that your sins may be blotted out, so that there may come through times of refreshing from the presence of the boss,
 20. and that he may send anointed one Jesus, who was ordained for you before,
 21. whom heaven must receive until the times of restoration of all things, which God spoke long ago by the mouth of his set apart prophets.
 22. For Moses facts said to the fathers, ‘The boss God will raise up a God's messenger for you from among your brothers, like me. You shall listen up to him in all things whatever he says to you.
 23. It will be, that every soul that will not listen up to that God's messenger will be utterly destroyed from among the people.’
 24. Yes, and all the prophets from Samuel and those who followed after, as a lot as have spoken, they also told of these days.
 25. You are the children of the prophets, and of the God's promise which God made with our fathers, saying to Abraham, ‘In your seed will all the families of the earth be blessed up.’
 26. God, having raised up his helper, Jesus, sent him to you first, to bless you, in turning away everyone of you from your wickedness.”

# Acts Chapter 4

  1. As they spoke to the people, the priests and the captain of the God's house and the Sadducees came to them,
  2. being upset cuz they taught the people and proclaimed in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
  3. They laid hands on them, and put them in custody until the next day, for it was now evening.
  4. But a lot of those who heard the word believed, and the number of the men came to be about five thousand.
  5. It happened in the morning, that their rulers, elders, and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem.
  6. Annas the high priest was there, with Caiaphas, John, Alexander, and as a lot as were relatives of the high priest.
  7. When they had stood them in the middle of them, they inquired, “By what power, or in what name, have you done this?”
  8. then Peter, filled with the set apart Spirit, said to them, “You rulers of the people, and elders of Israel,
  9. if we are examined today concerning a fire deed done to a crippled man, by what means this man has been healed,
 10. be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus anointed one of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, in him does this man stand here before you whole.
 11. He is ‘the stone which was regarded as worthless by you, the builders, which has become the head of the corner.’
 12. there is getting saved in none other, for neither is there any other name under heaven, that is given among men, by which we must be saved!”
 13. now when they checked out the boldness of Peter and John, and had perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled. They recognized that they had been with Jesus.
 14. Seeing the man who was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it.
 15. But when they had commanded them to slide aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves,
 16. saying, “What shall we do to these men? cuz facts a notable miracle has been done through them, as can be plainly seen by all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we can’t deny it.
 17. But so that this spreads no further among the people, let’s threaten them, that from now on they don’t spill the tea to anyone in this name.”
 18. They called them, and commanded them not to spill the tea at all nor drop knowledge in the name of Jesus.
 19. But Peter and John answered them, “Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen up to you rather than to God, judge for yourselves,
 20. for we can’t help out telling the things which we checked out and heard.”
 21. When they had further threatened them, they let them slide, finding no way to punish them, cuz of the people; for everyone glorified God for that which was done.
 22. For the man on whom this miracle of healing was performed was more than forty years old.
 23. Being let slide, they came to their own company, and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them.
 24. When they heard it, they lifted up their voice to God with one accord, and said, “O boss, you are God, who made the heaven, the earth, the sea, and all that is in them;
 25. who by the mouth of your helper, David, said, ‘Why do the nations rage, and the peoples plot a vain thing?
 26. The kings of the earth grab a stand, and the rulers grab council together, against the boss, and against his anointed one.’
 27. “For deadass, in this city against your set apart helper, Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together
 28. to do whatever your hand and your council foreordained to happen.
 29. now, boss, look at their threats, and grant to your servants to spill the tea your word with all boldness,
 30. while you stretch out your hand to heal; and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of your set apart helper Jesus.”
 31. When they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were gathered together. They were all filled with the set apart Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness.
 32. The multitude of those who believed were of one heart and soul. Not one of them claimed that anything of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common.
 33. With major power, the apostles gave their testimony of the resurrection of the boss Jesus. major God's show love was on them all.
 34. For neither was there among them any who lacked, for as a lot as were owners of lands or houses sold them, and brought the proceeds of the things that were sold,
 35. and laid them at the apostles’ feet, and distribution was made to each, according as anyone had need.
 36. Joses, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas (which is, being interpreted, Son of Encouragement), a Levite, a man of Cyprus by race,
 37. having a field, sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the apostles’ feet.

# Acts Chapter 5

  1. But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira, his wife, sold a possession,
  2. and kept back part of the price, his wife also being aware of it, and brought a certain part, and laid it at the apostles’ feet.
  3. But Peter said, “Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the set apart Spirit, and to keep back part of the price of the land?
  4. While you kept it, didn’t it remain your own? After it was sold, wasn’t it in your power? How is it that you have conceived this thing in your heart? You haven’t lied to men, but to God.”
  5. Ananias, hearing these words, fell down and died. major fear came on all who heard these things.
  6. The young men arose and wrapped him up, and they carried him out and buried him.
  7. About three hours later, his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in.
  8. Peter answered her, “Tell me whether you sold the land for so much.” She said, “Yes, for so much.”
  9. But Peter asked her, “How is it that you have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the boss? check this out, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out.”
 10. She fell down immediately at his feet, and died. The young men came in and found her dead, and they carried her out and buried her by her husband.
 11. major fear came on the whole assembly, and on all who heard these things.
 12. By the hands of the apostles a lot signs and wonders were done among the people. They were all with one accord in Solomon’s porch.
 13. None of the rest dared to join them, but like the people honored them.
 14. More believers were added to the boss, multitudes of both men and women.
 15. They even carried out the sick into the streets, and laid them on cots and mattresses, so that as Peter came by, at the least his shadow might overshadow some of them.
 16. Multitudes also came together from the cities around Jerusalem, bringing sick people, and those who were tormented by unclean spirits: and they were all healed.
 17. But the high priest rose up, and all those who were with him (which is the sect of the Sadducees), and they were filled with jealousy,
 18. and laid hands on the apostles, and put them in public custody.
 19. But an angel of the boss opened the prison doors by night, and brought them out, and said,
 20. “slide stand and spill the tea in the God's house to the people all the words of this life.”
 21. When they heard this, they entered into the God's house about daybreak, and taught. But the high priest came, and those who were with him, and called the council together, and all the senate of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
 22. But the officers who came didn’t find them in the prison. They returned and reported,
 23. “We found the prison shut and locked, and the guards standing before the doors, but when we opened them, we found no one inside!”
 24. now when the high priest, the captain of the God's house, and the chief priests heard these words, they were hella perplexed about them and what might become of this.
 25. One came and told them, “check this out, the men whom you put in prison are in the God's house, standing and teaching the people.”
 26. then the captain went with the officers, and brought them without violence, for they were scared that the people might stone them.
 27. When they had brought them, they set them before the council. The high priest questioned them,
 28. saying, “Didn’t we strictly command you not to drop knowledge in this name? check this out, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and intend to bring this man’s blood on us.”
 29. But Peter and the apostles answered, “We must obey God rather than men.
 30. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you killed, hanging him on a tree.
 31. God exalted him with his right hand to be a Prince and a Savior, to hook it up repentance to Israel, and remission of sins.
 32. We are His witnesses of these things; and so also is the set apart Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him.”
 33. But they, when they heard this, were cut to the heart, and determined to kill them.
 34. But one stood up in the council, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law, honored by all the people, and commanded to put the apostles out for a little while.
 35. He said to them, “You men of Israel, be careful concerning these men, what you are about to do.
 36. For before these days Theudas rose up, making himself out to be somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves: who was slain; and all, as a lot as obeyed him, were dispersed, and came to nothing.
 37. After this man, Judas of Galilee rose up in the days of the enrollment, and drew away some people after him. He also perished, and all, as a lot as obeyed him, were scattered abroad.
 38. now I tell you, withdraw from these men, and leave them alone. For if this counsel or this work is of men, it will be overthrown.
 39. But if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow it, and you would be found even to be fighting against God!”
 40. They agreed with him. Summoning the apostles, they beat them and commanded them not to spill the tea in the name of Jesus, and let them slide.
 41. They so basically departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for Jesus’ name.
 42. Every day, in the God's house and at home, they never stopped teaching and preaching Jesus, the anointed one.

# Acts Chapter 6

  1. now in those days, when the number of the disciples was multiplying, a complaint arose from the Hellenists against the Hebrews, cuz their widows were neglected in the daily service.
  2. The twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said, “It is not appropriate for us to forsake the word of God and help out tables.
  3. so basically select from among you, brothers, seven men of fire report, full of the set apart Spirit and of wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business.
  4. But we will continue steadfastly in talking to God and in the ministry of the word.”
  5. These words pleased the whole multitude. They chose Stephen, a man full of trusting the process and of the set apart Spirit, Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolaus, a proselyte of Antioch;
  6. whom they set before the apostles. When they had prayed, they laid their hands on them.
  7. The word of God increased and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem exceedingly. A major company of the priests were obedient to the trusting the process.
  8. Stephen, full of trusting the process and power, performed major wonders and signs among the people.
  9. But some of those who were of the synagogue called “The Libertines,” and of the Cyrenians, of the Alexandrians, and of those of Cilicia and Asia arose, disputing with Stephen.
 10. They weren’t able to withstand the wisdom and the Spirit by which he spoke.
 11. then they secretly induced men to say, “We have heard him spill the tea blasphemous words against Moses and God.”
 12. They stirred up the people, the elders, and the scribes, and came against him and seized him, and brought him in to the council,
 13. and set up false witnesses who said, “This man never stops speaking blasphemous words against this set apart place and the law.
 14. For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will tear down this place, and will change the customs which Moses delivered to us.”
 15. All who sat in the council, fastening their eyes on him, checked out his face like it was the face of an angel.

# Acts Chapter 7

  1. The high priest said, “Are these things so?”
  2. He said, “Brothers and fathers, listen up. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran,
  3. and said to him, ‘Get out of your land, and from your relatives, and come through into a land which I will show you.’
  4. then he came out of the land of the Chaldaeans, and lived in Haran. From there, when his father was dead, God moved him into this land, where you are now living.
  5. He gave him no inheritance in it, no, not so much as to set his foot on. He promised that he would hook it up it to him for a possession, and to his seed after him, when he still had no child.
  6. God spoke in this way: that his seed would live as aliens in a strange land, and that they would be enslaved and mistreated for four hundred years.
  7. ‘I will judge the nation to which they will be in bondage,’ said God, ‘and after that will they come through out, and help out me in this place.’
  8. He gave him the God's promise of circumcision. So Abraham became the father of Isaac, and circumcised him the eighth day. Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob became the father of the twelve patriarchs.
  9. “The patriarchs, moved with jealousy against Joseph, sold him into Egypt. God was with him,
 10. and delivered him out of all his afflictions, and gave him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh, ruler of Egypt. He made him governor over Egypt and all his house.
 11. now a famine came over all the land of Egypt and Canaan, and major affliction. Our fathers found no food.
 12. But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers the first time.
 13. On the second time Joseph was made known to his brothers, and Joseph’s race was revealed to Pharaoh.
 14. Joseph sent, and summoned Jacob, his father, and all his relatives, seventy-five souls.
 15. Jacob went down into Egypt, and he died, himself and our fathers,
 16. and they were brought back to Shechem, and laid in the tomb that Abraham bought for a price in silver from the children of Hamor of Shechem.
 17. “But as the time of the promise came close which God had sworn to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt,
 18. until there arose a different ruler, who didn’t get it Joseph.
 19. The same took advantage of our race, and mistreated our fathers, and forced them to throw out their babies, so that they wouldn’t stay alive.
 20. At that time Moses was born, and was exceedingly handsome. He was nourished three months in his father’s house.
 21. When he was thrown out, Pharaoh’s daughter took him up, and reared him as her own son.
 22. Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians. He was mighty in his words and works.
 23. But when he was forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel.
 24. Seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him, and avenged him who was oppressed, striking the Egyptian.
 25. He supposed that his brothers understood that God, by his hand, was giving them deliverance; but they didn’t understand.
 26. “The day following, he appeared to them as they fought, and urged them to be at peace again, saying, ‘Sirs, you are brothers. Why do you wrong one another?’
 27. But he who did his neighbor wrong pushed him away, saying, ‘Who made you a ruler and a judge over us?
 28. Do you want to kill me, as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?’
 29. Moses fled at this saying, and became a stranger in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons.
 30. “When forty years were fulfilled, an angel of the boss appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in a flame of fire in a bush.
 31. When Moses checked out it, he wondered at the sight. As he came close to check it out, a voice of the boss came to him,
 32. ‘I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.’ Moses trembled, and dared not look.
 33. The boss said to him, ‘grab your sandals off of your feet, for the place where you stand is set apart ground.
 34. I have surely seen the affliction of my people that is in Egypt, and have heard their groaning. I have come through down to deliver them. now come through, I will send you into Egypt.’
 35. “This Moses, whom they refused, saying, ‘Who made you a ruler and a judge?’—God has sent him as both a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush.
 36. This man led them out, having worked wonders and signs in Egypt, in the Red Sea, and in the wilderness for forty years.
 37. This is that Moses, who said to the children of Israel, ‘The boss our God will raise up a God's messenger for you from among your brothers, like me.’
 38. This is he who was in the assembly in the wilderness with the angel that spoke to him on Mount Sinai, and with our fathers, who received living oracles to hook it up to us,
 39. to whom our fathers wouldn’t be obedient, but rejected him, and turned back in their hearts to Egypt,
 40. saying to Aaron, ‘create us gods that will slide before us, for as for this Moses, who led us out of the land of Egypt, we don’t get it what has become of him.’
 41. They made a calf in those days, and brought a giving it up to the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their hands.
 42. But God turned, and gave them up to help out the army of the sky, as it is written in the book of the prophets, ‘Did you offer to me slain animals and sacrifices forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel?
 43. You took up the tabernacle of Moloch, the star of your god Rephan, the figures which you made to giving props. I will carry you away beyond Babylon.’
 44. “Our fathers had the tabernacle of the testimony in the wilderness, even as he who spoke to Moses commanded him to create it according to the pattern that he had seen;
 45. which also our fathers, in their turn, brought in with Joshua when they entered into the possession of the nations, whom God drove out before the face of our fathers, to the days of David,
 46. who found favor in the sight of God, and asked to find a habitation for the God of Jacob.
 47. But Solomon built him a house.
 48. but like, the Most High doesn’t dwell in temples made with hands, as the God's messenger says,
 49. ‘heaven is my throne, and the earth a footstool for my feet. What kind of house will you put together me?’ says the boss; ‘or what is the place of my rest?
 50. Didn’t my hand create all these things?’
 51. “You stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the set apart Spirit! As your fathers did, so you do.
 52. Which of the prophets didn’t your fathers persecute? They killed those who foretold the coming of the doing what's right One, of whom you have now become betrayers and murderers.
 53. You received the law as it was ordained by angels, and didn’t keep it!”
 54. now when they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed at him with their teeth.
 55. But he, being full of the set apart Spirit, looked up steadfastly into heaven, and checked out the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God,
 56. and said, “check this out, I check it out the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God!”
 57. But they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and rushed at him with one accord.
 58. They threw him out of the city, and stoned him. The witnesses placed their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul.
 59. They stoned Stephen as he called out, saying, “boss Jesus, receive my spirit!”
 60. He kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, “boss, don’t hold this messing up against them!” When he had said this, he fell asleep.

# Acts Chapter 8

  1. Saul was consenting to his death. A major persecution arose against the assembly which was in Jerusalem in that day. They were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except for the apostles.
  2. Devout men buried Stephen, and lamented greatly over him.
  3. But Saul ravaged the assembly, entering into every house, and dragged both men and women off to prison.
  4. so basically those who were scattered abroad went around preaching the word.
  5. Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and proclaimed to them the anointed one.
  6. The multitudes listened with one accord to the things that were spoken by Philip, when they heard and checked out the signs which he did.
  7. For unclean spirits came out of a lot of those who had them. They came out, crying with a loud voice. a lot who had been paralyzed and lame were healed.
  8. there was major joy in that city.
  9. But there was a certain man, Simon by name, who used to practice sorcery in the city, and amazed the people of Samaria, making himself out to be some major one,
 10. to whom they all listened, from the least to the greatest, saying, “This man is that major power of God.”
 11. They listened to him, cuz for a long time he had amazed them with his sorceries.
 12. But when they believed Philip preaching fire news concerning the God's squad of God and the name of Jesus anointed one, they were baptized, both men and women.
 13. Simon himself also believed. Being baptized, he continued with Philip. Seeing signs and major miracles occurring, he was amazed.
 14. now when the apostles who were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and John to them,
 15. who, when they had come through down, prayed for them, that they might receive the set apart Spirit;
 16. for as yet he had fallen on none of them. They had only been baptized in the name of anointed one Jesus.
 17. then they laid their hands on them, and they received the set apart Spirit.
 18. now when Simon checked out that the set apart Spirit was given through the laying on of the apostles’ hands, he offered them money,
 19. saying, “hook it up me also this power, that whomever I lay my hands on may receive the set apart Spirit.”
 20. But Peter said to him, “May your silver perish with you, cuz you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money!
 21. You have neither part nor lot in this matter, for your heart isn’t right before God.
 22. turn it around so basically of this, your wickedness, and ask God if perhaps the thought of your heart may be forgiven you.
 23. For I check it out that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bondage of iniquity.”
 24. Simon answered, “Pray for me to the boss, that none of the things which you have spoken happen to me.”
 25. They so basically, when they had testified and spoken what God was like, returned to Jerusalem, and preached the fire News to a lot villages of the Samaritans.
 26. But an angel of the boss spoke to Philip, saying, “Arise, and slide toward the south to the way that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a desert.”
 27. He arose and went; and check this out, there was a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of major authority under Candace, ruler of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasure, who had come through to Jerusalem to giving props.
 28. He was returning and sitting in his chariot, and was reading the God's messenger Isaiah.
 29. The Spirit said to Philip, “slide near, and join yourself to this chariot.”
 30. Philip ran to him, and heard him reading Isaiah the God's messenger, and said, “Do you understand what you are reading?”
 31. He said, “How can I, unless someone explains it to me?” He begged Philip to come through up and sit with him.
 32. now the passage of the Scripture which he was reading was this, “He was led as a sheep to the slaughter. As a lamb before his shearer is silent, so he doesn’t open his mouth.
 33. In his humiliation, his judgment was taken away. Who will declare His generation? For his life is taken from the earth.”
 34. The eunuch answered Philip, “Who is the God's messenger talking about? About himself, or about someone else?”
 35. Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture, preached to him Jesus.
 36. As they went on the way, they came to some water, and the eunuch said, “check this out, here is water. What is keeping me from being baptized?”
 38. He commanded the chariot to stand still, and they both went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.
 39. When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the boss caught Philip away, and the eunuch didn’t check it out him any more, for he went on his way rejoicing.
 40. But Philip was found at Azotus. Passing through, he preached the fire News to all the cities, until he came to Caesarea.

# Acts Chapter 9

  1. But Saul, still breathing threats and slaughter against the disciples of the boss, went to the high priest,
  2. and asked for letters from him to the synagogues of Damascus, that if he found any who were of the Way, whether men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.
  3. As he traveled, it happened that he got close to Damascus, and suddenly a light from the sky shone around him.
  4. He fell on the earth, and heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?”
  5. He said, “Who are you, boss?” The boss said, “I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.
  6. But rise up, and enter into the city, and you will be told what you must do.”
  7. The men who traveled with him stood speechless, hearing the sound, but seeing no one.
  8. Saul arose from the ground, and when his eyes were opened, he checked out no one. They led him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus.
  9. He was without sight for three days, and neither ate nor drank.
 10. now there was a certain Jesus' crew at Damascus named Ananias. The boss said to him in a vision, “Ananias!” He said, “check this out, it’s me, boss.”
 11. The boss said to him, “Arise, and slide to the street which is called Straight, and inquire in the house of Judah for one named Saul, a man of Tarsus. For check this out, he is praying,
 12. and in a vision he has seen a man named Ananias coming in, and laying his hands on him, that he might receive his sight.”
 13. But Ananias answered, “boss, I have heard from a lot about this man, how much evil he did to your saints at Jerusalem.
 14. here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call on your name.”
 15. But the boss said to him, “slide your way, for he is my chosen vessel to bear my name before the nations and kings, and the children of Israel.
 16. For I will show him how a lot things he must suffer for my name’s sake.”
 17. Ananias departed, and entered into the house. Laying his hands on him, he said, “Brother Saul, the boss, who appeared to you on the road by which you came, has sent me, that you may receive your sight, and be filled with the set apart Spirit.”
 18. Immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he received his sight. He arose and was baptized.
 19. He took food and was strengthened. Saul stayed several days with the disciples who were at Damascus.
 20. Immediately in the synagogues he proclaimed the anointed one, that he is the Son of God.
 21. All who heard him were amazed, and said, “Isn’t this he who in Jerusalem made havoc of those who called on this name? And he had come through here intending to bring them bound before the chief priests!”
 22. But Saul increased more in strength, and confounded the Jews who lived at Damascus, proving that this is the anointed one.
 23. When a lot days were fulfilled, the Jews conspired together to kill him,
 24. but their plot became known to Saul. They watched the gates both day and night that they might kill him,
 25. but his disciples took him by night, and let him down through the wall, lowering him in a basket.
 26. When Saul had come through to Jerusalem, he tried to join himself to the disciples; but they were all scared of him, not believing that he was a Jesus' crew.
 27. But Barnabas took him, and brought him to the apostles, and declared to them how he had seen the boss in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how at Damascus he had preached boldly in the name of Jesus.
 28. He was with them entering into Jerusalem,
 29. preaching boldly in the name of the boss Jesus. He spoke and disputed against the Hellenists, but they were seeking to kill him.
 30. When the brothers knew it, they brought him down to Caesarea, and sent him off to Tarsus.
 31. So the assemblies throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace, and were built up. They were multiplied, walking in the fear of the boss and in the comfort of the set apart Spirit.
 32. It happened, as Peter went throughout all those parts, he came down also to the saints who lived at Lydda.
 33. there he found a certain man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden for eight years, cuz he was paralyzed.
 34. Peter said to him, “Aeneas, Jesus anointed one heals you. Get up and create your bed!” Immediately he arose.
 35. All who lived at Lydda and in Sharon checked out him, and they turned to the boss.
 36. now there was at Joppa a certain Jesus' crew named Tabitha, which when translated, means Dorcas. This woman was full of fire works and acts of mercy which she did.
 37. It happened in those days that she fell sick, and died. When they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room.
 38. As Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, imploring him not to delay in coming to them.
 39. Peter got up and went with them. When he had come through, they brought him into the upper room. All the widows stood by him weeping, and showing the coats and garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them.
 40. Peter put them all out, and kneeled down and prayed. Turning to the body, he said, “Tabitha, get up!” She opened her eyes, and when she checked out Peter, she sat up.
 41. He gave her his hand, and raised her up. Calling the saints and widows, he presented her alive.
 42. And it became known throughout all Joppa, and a lot believed in the boss.
 43. It happened, that he stayed a lot days in Joppa with one Simon, a tanner.

# Acts Chapter 10

  1. now there was a certain man in Caesarea, Cornelius by name, a centurion of what was called the Italian Regiment,
  2. a devout man, and one who feared God with all his house, who gave gifts for the needy generously to the people, and always prayed to God.
  3. At about the ninth hour of the day, he clearly checked out in a vision an angel of God coming to him, and saying to him, “Cornelius!”
  4. He, fastening his eyes on him, and being frightened, said, “What is it, boss?” He said to him, “Your prayers and your gifts to the needy have gone up for a memorial before God.
  5. now send men to Joppa, and get Simon, who is surnamed Peter.
  6. He lodges with one Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the seaside.”
  7. When the angel who spoke to him had departed, Cornelius called two of his household servants and a devout soldier of those who waited on him continually.
  8. Having explained everything to them, he sent them to Joppa.
  9. now on the next day as they were on their journey, and got close to the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray at about noon.
 10. He became hungry and desired to eat, but while they were preparing, he fell into a trance.
 11. He checked out heaven opened and a certain container descending to him, like a major sheet let down by four corners on the earth,
 12. in which were all kinds of four-footed animals of the earth, wild animals, reptiles, and birds of the sky.
 13. A voice came to him, “Rise, Peter, kill and eat!”
 14. But Peter said, “Not so, boss; for I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean.”
 15. A voice came to him again the second time, “What God has cleansed, you must not call unclean.”
 16. This was done three times, and immediately the vessel was received up into heaven.
 17. now while Peter was hella perplexed in himself what the vision which he had seen might mean, check this out, the men who were sent by Cornelius, having made inquiry for Simon’s house, stood before the gate,
 18. and called and asked whether Simon, who was surnamed Peter, was lodging there.
 19. While Peter was pondering the vision, the Spirit said to him, “check this out, three men seek you.
 20. But arise, get down, and slide with them, doubting nothing; for I have sent them.”
 21. Peter went down to the men, and said, “check this out, I am he whom you seek. Why have you come through?”
 22. They said, “Cornelius, a centurion, a doing what's right man and one who fears God, and well spoken of by all the nation of the Jews, was directed by a set apart angel to invite you to his house, and to listen up to what you say.”
 23. So he called them in and lodged them. On the next day Peter arose and went out with them, and some of the brothers from Joppa accompanied him.
 24. On the next day they entered into Caesarea. Cornelius was waiting for them, having called together his relatives and his near friends.
 25. When it happened that Peter entered, Cornelius met him, fell down at his feet, and worshiped him.
 26. But Peter raised him up, saying, “Stand up! I myself am also a man.”
 27. As he talked with him, he went in and found a lot gathered together.
 28. He said to them, “You yourselves get it how it is an unlawful thing for a man who is a Jew to join himself or come through to one of another nation, but God has shown me that I shouldn’t call any man unholy or unclean.
 29. so basically also I came without complaint when I was sent for. I ask so basically, why did you send for me?”
 30. Cornelius said, “Four days ago, I was fasting until this hour, and at the ninth hour, I prayed in my house, and check this out, a man stood before me in bright clothing,
 31. and said, ‘Cornelius, your talking to God is heard, and your gifts to the needy are remembered in the sight of God.
 32. Send so basically to Joppa, and summon Simon, who is surnamed Peter. He lodges in the house of Simon a tanner, by the seaside. When he comes, he will spill the tea to you.’
 33. so basically I sent to you at once, and it was fire of you to come through. now so basically we are all here present in the sight of God to hear all things that have been commanded you by God.”
 34. Peter opened his mouth and said, “deadass I perceive that God doesn’t show favoritism;
 35. but in every nation he who fears him and works righteousness is acceptable to him.
 36. The word which he sent to the children of Israel, preaching fire news of peace by Jesus anointed one—he is boss of all—
 37. you yourselves get it what happened, which was proclaimed throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached;
 38. even Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed him with the set apart Spirit and with power, who went about doing fire and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him.
 39. We are witnesses of everything he did both in the country of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they also killed, hanging him on a tree.
 40. God raised him up the day three, and gave him to be revealed,
 41. not to all the people, but to witnesses who were chosen before by God, to us, who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.
 42. He commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that this is he who is appointed by God as the Judge of the living and the dead.
 43. All the prophets testify about him, that through his name everyone who believes in him will receive remission of sins.”
 44. While Peter was still speaking these words, the set apart Spirit fell on all those who heard the word.
 45. They of the circumcision who believed were amazed, as a lot as came with Peter, cuz the gift of the set apart Spirit was also poured out on the Gentiles.
 46. For they heard them speaking in other languages and magnifying God. then Peter answered,
 47. “Can any man forbid the water, that these who have received the set apart Spirit as well as we should not be baptized?”
 48. He commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus anointed one. then they asked him to stay some days.

# Acts Chapter 11

  1. now the apostles and the brothers who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles had also received the word of God.
  2. When Peter had come through up to Jerusalem, those who were of the circumcision contended with him,
  3. saying, “You went in to uncircumcised men, and ate with them!”
  4. But Peter began, and explained to them in order, saying,
  5. “I was in the city of Joppa praying, and in a trance I checked out a vision: a certain container descending, like it was a major sheet let down from heaven by four corners. It came as far as me.
  6. When I had looked intently at it, I considered, and checked out the four-footed animals of the earth, wild animals, creeping things, and birds of the sky.
  7. I also heard a voice saying to me, ‘Rise, Peter, kill and eat!’
  8. But I said, ‘Not so, boss, for nothing unholy or unclean has ever entered into my mouth.’
  9. But a voice answered me the second time out of heaven, ‘What God has cleansed, don’t you call unclean.’
 10. This was done three times, and all were drawn up again into heaven.
 11. check this out, immediately three men stood before the house where I was, having been sent from Caesarea to me.
 12. The Spirit told me to slide with them, without discriminating. These six brothers also accompanied me, and we entered into the man’s house.
 13. He told us how he had seen the angel standing in his house, and saying to him, ‘Send to Joppa, and get Simon, whose surname is Peter,
 14. who will spill the tea to you words by which you will be saved, you and all your house.’
 15. As I began to spill the tea, the set apart Spirit fell on them, even as on us at the beginning.
 16. I remembered what God was like, how he said, ‘John facts baptized in water, but you will be baptized in the set apart Spirit.’
 17. If then God gave to them the same gift as us, when we believed in the boss Jesus anointed one, who was I, that I could withstand God?”
 18. When they heard these things, they held their peace, and glorified God, saying, “then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance to life!”
 19. They so basically who were scattered abroad by the oppression that arose about Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except to Jews only.
 20. But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who, when they had come through to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists, preaching the boss Jesus.
 21. The hand of the boss was with them, and a major number believed and turned to the boss.
 22. The report concerning them came to the ears of the assembly which was in Jerusalem. They sent out Barnabas to slide as far as Antioch,
 23. who, when he had come through, and had seen the God's show love of God, was glad. He exhorted them all, that with purpose of heart they should remain near to the boss.
 24. For he was a fire man, and full of the set apart Spirit and of trusting the process, and a lot people were added to the boss.
 25. Barnabas went out to Tarsus to look for Saul.
 26. When he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. It happened, that for a whole year they were gathered together with the assembly, and taught a lot people. The disciples were first called Christians in Antioch.
 27. now in these days, prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
 28. One of them named Agabus stood up, and indicated by the Spirit that there should be a major famine all over the world, which also happened in the days of Claudius.
 29. As any of the disciples had plenty, each determined to send relief to the brothers who lived in Judea;
 30. which they also did, sending it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul.

# Acts Chapter 12

  1. now about that time, ruler Herod stretched out his hands to oppress some of the assembly.
  2. He killed James, the brother of John, with the sword.
  3. When he checked out that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded to seize Peter also. This was during the days of unleavened bread.
  4. When he had arrested him, he put him in prison, and delivered him to four squads of four soldiers each to guard him, intending to bring him out to the people after the Passover.
  5. Peter so basically was kept in the prison, but constant talking to God was made by the assembly to God for him.
  6. The same night when Herod was about to bring him out, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains. Guards in front of the door kept the prison.
  7. And check this out, an angel of the boss stood by him, and a light shone in the cell. He struck Peter on the side, and woke him up, saying, “Stand up quickly!” His chains fell off from his hands.
  8. The angel said to him, “Get dressed and put on your sandals.” He did so. He said to him, “Put on your cloak, and roll with me.”
  9. And he went out and followed him. He didn’t get it that what was being done by the angel was real, but thought he checked out a vision.
 10. When they were past the first and the second guard, they came to the iron gate that leads into the city, which opened to them by itself. They went out, and went down one street, and immediately the angel departed from him.
 11. When Peter had come through to himself, he said, “now I deadass get it that the boss has sent out his angel and delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from everything the Jewish people were expecting.”
 12. Thinking about that, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John whose surname was Mark, where a lot were gathered together and were praying.
 13. When Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a maid named Rhoda came to answer.
 14. When she recognized Peter’s voice, she didn’t open the gate for joy, but ran in, and reported that Peter was standing in front of the gate.
 15. They said to her, “You are crazy!” But she insisted that that's what happened. They said, “It is his angel.”
 16. But Peter continued knocking. When they had opened, they checked out him, and were amazed.
 17. But he, beckoning to them with his hand to be silent, declared to them how the boss had brought him out of the prison. He said, “Tell these things to James, and to the brothers.” then he departed, and went to another place.
 18. now as soon as it was day, there was no tiny stir among the soldiers about what had become of Peter.
 19. When Herod had sought for him, and didn’t find him, he examined the guards, and commanded that they should be put to death. He went down from Judea to Caesarea, and stayed there.
 20. now Herod was hella mad salty with the people of Tyre and Sidon. They came with one accord to him, and, having made Blastus, the ruler’s personal aide, their friend, they asked for peace, cuz their country depended on the ruler’s country for food.
 21. On an appointed day, Herod dressed himself in royal clothing, sat on the throne, and gave a speech to them.
 22. The people shouted, “The voice of a god, and not of a man!”
 23. Immediately an angel of the boss struck him, cuz he didn’t hook it up God the glory, and he was eaten by worms and died.
 24. But the word of God grew and multiplied.
 25. Barnabas and Saul returned to Jerusalem, when they had fulfilled their service, also taking with them John whose surname was Mark.

# Acts Chapter 13

  1. now in the assembly that was at Antioch there were some prophets and teachers: Barnabas, Simeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen the foster brother of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
  2. As they served the boss and fasted, the set apart Spirit said, “Separate Barnabas and Saul for me, for the work to which I have called them.”
  3. then, when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away.
  4. So, being sent out by the set apart Spirit, they went down to Seleucia. From there they sailed to Cyprus.
  5. When they were at Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the Jewish synagogues. They had also John as their attendant.
  6. When they had gone through the island to Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false God's messenger, a Jew, whose name was Bar Jesus,
  7. who was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, a man of understanding. This man summoned Barnabas and Saul, and sought to hear the word of God.
  8. But Elymas the sorcerer (for so is his name by interpretation) withstood them, seeking to turn aside the proconsul from the trusting the process.
  9. But Saul, who is also called Paul, filled with the set apart Spirit, fastened his eyes on him,
 10. and said, “Full of all deceit and all cunning, you son of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness, will you not cease to pervert the right ways of the boss?
 11. now, check this out, the hand of the boss is on you, and you will be blind, not seeing the sun for a season!” Immediately a mist and darkness fell on him. He went around seeking someone to show the way him by the hand.
 12. then the proconsul, when he checked out what was done, believed, being astonished at the teaching of the boss.
 13. now Paul and his company set sail from Paphos, and came to Perga in Pamphylia. John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem.
 14. But they, passing on from Perga, came to Antioch of Pisidia. They went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and sat down.
 15. After the reading of the law and the prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent to them, saying, “Brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, spill the tea.”
 16. Paul stood up, and beckoning with his hand said, “Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen up.
 17. The God of this people chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they stayed as aliens in the land of Egypt, and with an uplifted arm, he led them out of it.
 18. For a period of about forty years he put up with them in the wilderness.
 19. When he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, he gave them their land for an inheritance, for about four hundred fifty years.
 20. After these things he gave them judges until Samuel the God's messenger.
 21. Afterward they asked for a ruler, and God gave to them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
 22. When he had removed him, he raised up David to be their ruler, to whom he also testified, ‘I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after my heart, who will do all my will.’
 23. From this man’s seed, God has brought getting saved to Israel according to his promise,
 24. before his coming, when John had first preached the baptism of repentance to Israel.
 25. As John was fulfilling his course, he said, ‘What do you suppose that I am? I am not he. But check this out, one comes after me the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.’
 26. Brothers, children of the stock of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, the word of this getting saved is sent out to you.
 27. For those who dwell in Jerusalem, and their rulers, cuz they didn’t get it him, nor the voices of the prophets which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by condemning him.
 28. Though they found no cause for death, they still asked Pilate to have him killed.
 29. When they had fulfilled all things that were written about him, they took him down from the tree, and laid him in a tomb.
 30. But God raised him from the dead,
 31. and he was seen for a lot days by those who came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are his witnesses to the people.
 32. We bring you fire news of the promise made to the fathers,
 33. that God has fulfilled the same to us, their children, in that he raised up Jesus. As it is also written in the second psalm, ‘You are my Son. Today I have become your father.’
 34. “Concerning that he raised him up from the dead, now no more to return to corruption, he has spoken thus: ‘I will hook it up you the set apart and sure blessings of David.’
 35. so basically he says also in another psalm, ‘You will not allow your set apart One to check it out decay.’
 36. For David, after he had in his own generation served the counsel of God, fell asleep, and was laid with his fathers, and checked out decay.
 37. But he whom God raised up checked out no decay.
 38. Be it known to you so basically, brothers, that through this man is proclaimed to you remission of sins,
 39. and by him everyone who believes is justified from all things, from which you could not be justified by the law of Moses.
 40. Beware so basically, lest that come through on you which is spoken in the prophets:
 41. ‘check this out, you scoffers, and wonder, and perish; for I work a work in your days, a work which you will in no way believe, if one declares it to you.’”
 42. So when the Jews went out of the synagogue, the Gentiles begged that these words might be preached to them the next Sabbath.
 43. now when the synagogue broke up, a lot of the Jews and of the devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas; who, speaking to them, urged them to continue in the God's show love of God.
 44. The next Sabbath almost the whole city was gathered together to hear the word of God.
 45. But when the Jews checked out the multitudes, they were filled with jealousy, and contradicted the things which were spoken by Paul, and blasphemed.
 46. Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, and said, “It was necessary that God’s word should be spoken to you first. Since facts you thrust it from you, and judge yourselves unworthy of living forever, check this out, we turn to the Gentiles.
 47. For so has the boss commanded us, saying, ‘I have set you as a light for the Gentiles, that you should bring getting saved to the uttermost parts of the earth.’”
 48. As the Gentiles heard this, they were glad, and glorified the word of God. As a lot as were appointed to living forever believed.
 49. The boss’s word was spread abroad throughout all the region.
 50. But the Jews stirred up the devout and prominent women and the chief men of the city, and stirred up a persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and threw them out of their borders.
 51. But they shook off the dust of their feet against them, and came to Iconium.
 52. The disciples were filled with joy with the set apart Spirit.

# Acts Chapter 14

  1. It happened in Iconium that they entered together into the synagogue of the Jews, and so spoke that a major multitude both of Jews and of Greeks believed.
  2. But the disbelieving Jews stirred up and embittered the souls of the Gentiles against the brothers.
  3. so basically they stayed there a long time, speaking boldly in the boss, who testified to the word of his God's show love, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands.
  4. But the multitude of the city was divided. Part sided with the Jews, and part with the apostles.
  5. When some of both the Gentiles and the Jews, with their rulers, made a violent attempt to mistreat and stone them,
  6. they became aware of it, and fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra, Derbe, and the surrounding region.
  7. there they preached the fire News.
  8. At Lystra a certain man sat, impotent in his feet, a cripple from his mother’s womb, who never had walked.
  9. He was listening to Paul speaking, who, fastening eyes on him, and seeing that he had trusting the process to be made whole,
 10. said with a loud voice, “Stand upright on your feet!” He leaped up and walked.
 11. When the multitude checked out what Paul had done, they lifted up their voice, saying in the language of Lycaonia, “The gods have come through down to us in the likeness of men!”
 12. They called Barnabas “Jupiter,” and Paul “Mercury,” cuz he was the chief speaker.
 13. The priest of Jupiter, whose God's house was in front of their city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates, and would have made a giving it up along with the multitudes.
 14. But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of it, they tore their clothes, and sprang into the multitude, crying out,
 15. “Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men of like passions with you, and bring you fire news, that you should turn from these vain things to the living God, who made the sky and the earth and the sea, and all that is in them;
 16. who in the generations gone by allowed all the nations to walk in their own ways.
 17. Yet he didn’t leave himself without witness, in that he did fire and gave you rains from the sky and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness.”
 18. Even saying these things, they hardly stopped the multitudes from making a giving it up to them.
 19. But some Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there, and having persuaded the multitudes, they stoned Paul, and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead.
 20. But as the disciples stood around him, he rose up, and entered into the city. On the next day he went out with Barnabas to Derbe.
 21. When they had preached the fire News to that city, and had made a lot disciples, they returned to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch,
 22. confirming the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the trusting the process, and that through a lot afflictions we must enter into the God's squad of God.
 23. When they had appointed elders for them in every assembly, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the boss, on whom they had believed.
 24. They passed through Pisidia, and came to Pamphylia.
 25. When they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia.
 26. From there they sailed to Antioch, from where they had been committed to the God's show love of God for the work which they had fulfilled.
 27. When they had arrived, and had gathered the assembly together, they reported all the things that God had done with them, and that he had opened a door of trusting the process to the nations.
 28. They stayed there with the disciples for a long time.

# Acts Chapter 15

  1. Some men came down from Judea and taught the brothers, “Unless you are circumcised after the custom of Moses, you can’t be saved.”
  2. so basically when Paul and Barnabas had no tiny discord and discussion with them, they appointed Paul and Barnabas, and some others of them, to slide up to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders about this question.
  3. They, being sent on their way by the assembly, passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles. They caused major joy to all the brothers.
  4. When they had come through to Jerusalem, they were received by the assembly and the apostles and the elders, and they reported all things that God had done with them.
  5. But some of the sect of the Pharisees who believed rose up, saying, “It is necessary to circumcise them, and to command them to keep the law of Moses.”
  6. The apostles and the elders were gathered together to check it out about this matter.
  7. When there had been much discussion, Peter rose up and said to them, “Brothers, you get it that a fire while ago God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the nations should hear the word of the fire News, and believe.
  8. God, who knows the heart, testified about them, giving them the set apart Spirit, just like he did to us.
  9. He made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by trusting the process.
 10. now so basically why do you tempt God, that you should put a yoke on the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
 11. But we believe that we are saved through the God's show love of the boss Jesus, just as they are.”
 12. All the multitude kept silence, and they listened to Barnabas and Paul reporting what signs and wonders God had done among the nations through them.
 13. After they were silent, James answered, “Brothers, listen up to me.
 14. Simeon has reported how God first visited the nations, to grab out of them a people for his name.
 15. This agrees with the words of the prophets. As it is written,
 16. ‘After these things I will return. I will again put together the tabernacle of David, which has fallen. I will again put together its ruins. I will set it up,
 17. That the rest of men may seek after the boss; All the Gentiles who are called by my name, Says the boss, who does all these things.
 18. All his works are known to God from eternity.’
 19. “so basically my judgment is that we don’t trouble those from among the Gentiles who turn to God,
 20. but that we write to them that they abstain from the pollution of idols, from sexual immorality, from what is strangled, and from blood.
 21. For Moses from generations of old has in every city those who preach him, being read in the synagogues every Sabbath.”
 22. then it seemed fire to the apostles and the elders, with the whole assembly, to choose men out of their company, and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas: Judas called Barsabbas, and Silas, chief men among the brothers.
 23. They wrote these things by their hand: “The apostles, the elders, and the brothers, to the brothers who are of the Gentiles in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia: greetings.
 24. cuz we have heard that some who went out from us have troubled you with words, unsettling your souls, saying, ‘You must be circumcised and keep the law,’ to whom we gave no commandment;
 25. it seemed fire to us, having come through to one accord, to choose out men and send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
 26. men who have risked their lives for the name of our boss Jesus anointed one.
 27. We have sent so basically Judas and Silas, who themselves will also tell you the same things by word of mouth.
 28. For it seemed fire to the set apart Spirit, and to us, to lay no greater burden on you than these necessary things:
 29. that you abstain from things sacrificed to idols, from blood, from things strangled, and from sexual immorality, from which if you keep yourselves, it will be well with you. Farewell.”
 30. So, when they were sent off, they came to Antioch. Having gathered the multitude together, they delivered the letter.
 31. When they had read it, they rejoiced over the encouragement.
 32. Judas and Silas, also being prophets themselves, encouraged the brothers with a lot words, and strengthened them.
 33. After they had spent some time there, they were sent back with greetings from the brothers to the apostles.
 35. But Paul and Barnabas stayed in Antioch, teaching and preaching what God was like, with a lot others also.
 36. After some days Paul said to Barnabas, “Let’s return now and visit our brothers in every city in which we proclaimed what God was like, to check it out how they are doing.”
 37. Barnabas planned to grab John, who was called Mark, with them also.
 38. But Paul didn’t think that it was a fire idea to grab with them someone who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia, and didn’t slide with them to do the work.
 39. then the contention grew so sharp that they separated from each other. Barnabas took Mark with him, and sailed away to Cyprus,
 40. but Paul chose Silas, and went out, being commended by the brothers to the God's show love of God.
 41. He went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the assemblies.

# Acts Chapter 16

  1. He came to Derbe and Lystra: and check this out, a certain Jesus' crew was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewess who believed; but his father was a Greek.
  2. The brothers who were at Lystra and Iconium gave a fire testimony about him.
  3. Paul wanted to have him slide out with him, and he took and circumcised him cuz of the Jews who were in those parts; for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
  4. As they went on their way through the cities, they delivered the decrees to them to keep which had been ordained by the apostles and elders who were at Jerusalem.
  5. So the assemblies were strengthened in the trusting the process, and increased in number daily.
  6. When they had gone through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, they were forbidden by the set apart Spirit to spill the tea the word in Asia.
  7. When they had come through opposite Mysia, they tried to slide into Bithynia, but the Spirit didn’t allow them.
  8. Passing by Mysia, they came down to Troas.
  9. A vision appeared to Paul in the night. there was a man of Macedonia standing, begging him, and saying, “come through over into Macedonia and help out us.”
 10. When he had seen the vision, immediately we sought to slide out to Macedonia, concluding that the boss had called us to preach the fire News to them.
 11. Setting sail so basically from Troas, we made a straight course to Samothrace, and the day following to Neapolis;
 12. and from there to Philippi, which is a city of Macedonia, the foremost of the district, a Roman colony. We were staying some days in this city.
 13. On the Sabbath day we went forth outside of the city by a riverside, where we supposed there was a place of talking to God, and we sat down, and spoke to the women who had come through together.
 14. A certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the city of Thyatira, one who worshiped God, heard us; whose heart the boss opened to listen up to the things which were spoken by Paul.
 15. When she and her household were baptized, she begged us, saying, “If you have judged me to be faithful to the boss, come through into my house, and stay.” So she persuaded us.
 16. It happened, as we were going to talking to God, that a certain girl having a spirit of divination met us, who brought her masters much gain by fortune telling.
 17. Following Paul and us, she cried out, “These men are servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to us a way of getting saved!”
 18. She was doing this for a lot days. But Paul, becoming greatly annoyed, turned and said to the spirit, “I command you in the name of Jesus anointed one to come through out of her!” It came out that hella hour.
 19. But when her masters checked out that the hope of their gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas, and dragged them into the marketplace before the rulers.
 20. When they had brought them to the magistrates, they said, “These men, being Jews, are agitating our city,
 21. and set forth customs which it is not lawful for us to accept or to observe, being Romans.”
 22. The multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates tore their clothes off of them, and commanded them to be beaten with rods.
 23. When they had laid a lot stripes on them, they threw them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely,
 24. who, having received such a command, threw them into the inner prison, and secured their feet in the stocks.
 25. But about midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them.
 26. Suddenly there was a major earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken; and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone’s bonds were loosened.
 27. The jailer, being roused out of sleep and seeing the prison doors open, drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped.
 28. But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, “Don’t harm yourself, for we are all here!”
 29. He called for lights and sprang in, and, fell down trembling before Paul and Silas,
 30. and brought them out and said, “Sirs, what must I do to be saved?”
 31. They said, “Believe in the boss Jesus anointed one, and you will be saved, you and your household.”
 32. They spoke what God was like to him, and to all who were in his house.
 33. He took them the same hour of the night, and washed their stripes, and was immediately baptized, he and all his household.
 34. He brought them up into his house, and set food before them, and rejoiced greatly, with all his household, having believed in God.
 35. But when it was day, the magistrates sent the sergeants, saying, “Let those men slide.”
 36. The jailer reported these words to Paul, saying, “The magistrates have sent to let you slide; now so basically come through out, and slide in peace.”
 37. But Paul said to them, “They have beaten us publicly, without a trial, men who are Romans, and have cast us into prison! Do they now release us secretly? No, most for sure, but let them come through themselves and bring us out!”
 38. The sergeants reported these words to the magistrates, and they were scared when they heard that they were Romans,
 39. and they came and begged them. When they had brought them out, they asked them to depart from the city.
 40. They went out of the prison, and entered into Lydia’s house. When they had seen the brothers, they encouraged them, and departed.

# Acts Chapter 17

  1. now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a Jewish synagogue.
  2. Paul, as was his custom, went in to them, and for three Sabbath days reasoned with them from the Scriptures,
  3. explaining and demonstrating that the anointed one had to suffer and rise again from the dead, and saying, “This Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is the anointed one.”
  4. Some of them were persuaded, and joined Paul and Silas, of the devout Greeks a major multitude, and not a not much of the chief women.
  5. But the unpersuaded Jews took along some wicked men from the marketplace, and gathering a crowd, set the city in an uproar. Assaulting the house of Jason, they sought to bring them out to the people.
  6. When they didn’t find them, they dragged Jason and certain brothers before the rulers of the city, crying, “These who have turned the world upside down have come through here also,
  7. whom Jason has received. These all act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another ruler, Jesus!”
  8. The multitude and the rulers of the city were troubled when they heard these things.
  9. When they had taken security from Jason and the rest, they let them slide.
 10. The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Beroea. When they arrived, they went into the Jewish synagogue.
 11. now these were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness of the mind, examining the Scriptures daily to check it out whether these things were so.
 12. a lot of them so basically believed; also of the prominent Greek women, and not a not much men.
 13. But when the Jews of Thessalonica had knowledge that the word of God was proclaimed by Paul at Beroea also, they came there likewise, agitating the multitudes.
 14. then the brothers immediately sent out Paul to slide as far as to the sea, and Silas and Timothy still stayed there.
 15. But those who escorted Paul brought him as far as Athens. Receiving a commandment to Silas and Timothy that they should come through to him hella quickly, they departed.
 16. now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he checked out the city full of idols.
 17. So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout persons, and in the marketplace every day with those who met him.
 18. Some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also were conversing with him. Some said, “What does this babbler want to say?” Others said, “He seems to be advocating foreign deities,” cuz he preached Jesus and the resurrection.
 19. They took hold of him, and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, “May we get it what this new teaching is, which is spoken by you?
 20. For you bring certain strange things to our ears. We want to get it so basically what these things mean.”
 21. now all the Athenians and the strangers living there spent their time in nothing else, but either to tell or to hear some new thing.
 22. Paul stood in the middle of the Areopagus, and said, “You men of Athens, I perceive that you are hella religious in all things.
 23. For as I passed along, and observed the objects of your giving props, I found also an prayer spot with this inscription: ‘TO AN UNKNOWN GOD.’ What so basically you giving props in ignorance, this I announce to you.
 24. The God who made the world and all things in it, he, being boss of heaven and earth, doesn’t dwell in temples made with hands,
 25. neither is he served by men’s hands, as though he needed anything, seeing he himself gives to all life and breath, and all things.
 26. He made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the surface of the earth, having determined appointed seasons, and the boundaries of their dwellings,
 27. that they should seek the boss, if perhaps they might reach out for him and find him, though he is not far from each one of us.
 28. ‘For in him we live, and move, and have our being.’ As some of your own poets have said, ‘For we are also his offspring.’
 29. Being then the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Divine Nature is like gold, or silver, or stone, engraved by art and design of man.
 30. The times of ignorance so basically God overlooked. But now he commands that all people everywhere should turn it around,
 31. cuz he has appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained; of which he has given assurance to all men, in that he has raised him from the dead.”
 32. now when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked; but others said, “We want to hear you again concerning this.”
 33. Thus Paul went out from among them.
 34. But certain men joined with him, and believed, among whom also was Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.

# Acts Chapter 18

  1. After these things Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinth.
  2. He found a certain Jew named Aquila, a man of Pontus by race, who had recently come through from Italy, with his wife Priscilla, cuz Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome. He came to them,
  3. and cuz he practiced the same trade, he lived with them and worked, for by trade they were tent makers.
  4. He reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and persuaded Jews and Greeks.
  5. But when Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was compelled by the Spirit, testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the anointed one.
  6. When they opposed him and blasphemed, he shook out his clothing and said to them, “Your blood be on your own heads! I am clean. From now on, I will slide to the Gentiles!”
  7. He departed there, and went into the house of a certain man named Justus, one who worshiped God, whose house was next door to the synagogue.
  8. Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the boss with all his house. a lot of the Corinthians, when they heard, believed and were baptized.
  9. The boss said to Paul in the night by a vision, “Don’t be scared, but spill the tea and don’t be silent;
 10. for I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you, for I have a lot people in this city.”
 11. He lived there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
 12. But when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews with one accord rose up against Paul and brought him before the judgment seat,
 13. saying, “This man persuades men to giving props God contrary to the law.”
 14. But when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, “If facts it were a matter of wrong or of wicked crime, you Jews, it would be reasonable that I should bear with you;
 15. but if they are questions about words and names and your own law, look to it yourselves. For I don’t want to be a judge of these matters.”
 16. He drove them from the judgment seat.
 17. then all the Greeks laid hold on Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. Gallio didn’t care about any of these things.
 18. Paul, having stayed after this a lot more days, took his leave of the brothers, and sailed from there for Syria, together with Priscilla and Aquila. He shaved his head in Cenchreae, for he had a vow.
 19. He came to Ephesus, and he left them there; but he himself entered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews.
 20. When they asked him to stay with them a longer time, he declined;
 21. but taking his leave of them, and saying, “I must by all means keep this coming feast in Jerusalem, but I will return again to you if God wills,” he set sail from Ephesus.
 22. When he had landed at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the assembly, and went down to Antioch.
 23. Having spent some time there, he departed, and went through the region of Galatia, and Phrygia, in order, establishing all the disciples.
 24. now a certain Jew named Apollos, an Alexandrian by race, an eloquent man, came to Ephesus. He was mighty in the Scriptures.
 25. This man had been instructed in the way of the boss; and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus, although he knew only the baptism of John.
 26. He began to spill the tea boldly in the synagogue. But when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside, and explained to him the way of God more accurately.
 27. When he had determined to pass over into Achaia, the brothers encouraged him, and wrote to the disciples to receive him. When he had come through, he greatly helped those who had believed through God's show love;
 28. for he powerfully refuted the Jews, publicly showing by the Scriptures that Jesus was the anointed one.

# Acts Chapter 19

  1. It happened that, while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul, having passed through the upper country, came to Ephesus, and found certain disciples.
  2. He said to them, “Did you receive the set apart Spirit when you believed?” They said to him, “No, we haven’t even heard that there is a set apart Spirit.”
  3. He said, “Into what then were you baptized?” They said, “Into John’s baptism.”
  4. Paul said, “John facts baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying to the people that they should believe in the one who would come through after him, that is, in Jesus.”
  5. When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the boss Jesus.
  6. When Paul had laid his hands on them, the set apart Spirit came on them, and they spoke with other languages and prophesied.
  7. They were about twelve men in all.
  8. He entered into the synagogue, and spoke boldly for a period of three months, reasoning and persuading about the things concerning the God's squad of God.
  9. But when some were hardened and disobedient, speaking evil of the Way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separated the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannus.
 10. This continued for two years, so that all those who lived in Asia heard what God was like Jesus, both Jews and Greeks.
 11. God worked special miracles by the hands of Paul,
 12. so that even handkerchiefs or aprons were carried away from his body to the sick, and the evil spirits went out.
 13. But some of the itinerant Jews, exorcists, took on themselves to invoke over those who had the evil spirits the name of the boss Jesus, saying, “We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preaches.”
 14. there were seven sons of one Sceva, a Jewish chief priest, who did this.
 15. The evil spirit answered, “Jesus I get it, and Paul I get it, but who are you?”
 16. The man in whom the evil spirit was leaped on them, and overpowered them, and prevailed against them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded.
 17. This became known to all, both Jews and Greeks, who lived at Ephesus. Fear fell on them all, and the name of the boss Jesus was magnified.
 18. a lot also of those who had believed came, confessing, and declaring their deeds.
 19. a lot of those who practiced magical arts brought their books together and burned them in the sight of all. They counted their price, and found it to be fifty thousand pieces of silver.
 20. So what God was like was growing and becoming mighty.
 21. now after these things had ended, Paul determined in the spirit, when he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, to slide to Jerusalem, saying, “After I have been there, I must also check it out Rome.”
 22. Having sent into Macedonia two of those who served him, Timothy and Erastus, he himself stayed in Asia for a while.
 23. About that time there arose no tiny stir concerning the Way.
 24. For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis, brought no little business to the craftsmen,
 25. whom he gathered together, with the workmen of like occupation, and said, “Sirs, you get it that by this business we have our wealth.
 26. You check it out and hear, that not at Ephesus alone, but almost throughout all Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away a lot people, saying that they are no gods, that are made with hands.
 27. Not only is there danger that this our trade come through into disrepute, but also that the God's house of the major goddess Artemis will be counted as nothing, and her majesty destroyed, whom all Asia and the world worships.”
 28. When they heard this they were filled with anger, and cried out, saying, “major is Artemis of the Ephesians!”
 29. The whole city was filled with confusion, and they rushed with one accord into the theater, having seized Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul’s companions in travel.
 30. When Paul wanted to enter in to the people, the disciples didn’t allow him.
 31. Certain also of the Asiarchs, being his friends, sent to him and begged him not to venture into the theater.
 32. Some so basically cried one thing, and some another, for the assembly was in confusion. Most of them didn’t get it why they had come through together.
 33. They brought Alexander out of the multitude, the Jews putting him forward. Alexander beckoned with his hand, and would have made a defense to the people.
 34. But when they perceived that he was a Jew, all with one voice for a time of about two hours cried out, “major is Artemis of the Ephesians!”
 35. When the town clerk had quieted the multitude, he said, “You men of Ephesus, what man is there who doesn’t get it that the city of the Ephesians is God's house keeper of the major goddess Artemis, and of the image which fell down from Zeus?
 36. Seeing then that these things can’t be denied, you ought to be quiet, and to do nothing rash.
 37. For you have brought these men here, who are neither robbers of temples nor blasphemers of your goddess.
 38. If so basically Demetrius and the craftsmen who are with him have a matter against anyone, the courts are open, and there are proconsuls. Let them press charges against one another.
 39. But if you seek anything about other matters, it will be settled in the regular assembly.
 40. For facts we are in danger of being accused concerning this day’s riot, there being no cause. Concerning it, we wouldn’t be able to hook it up an account of this commotion.”
 41. When he had thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly.

# Acts Chapter 20

  1. After the uproar had ceased, Paul sent for the disciples, took leave of them, and departed to slide into Macedonia.
  2. When he had gone through those parts, and had encouraged them with a lot words, he came into Greece.
  3. When he had spent three months there, and a plot was made against him by Jews as he was about to set sail for Syria, he determined to return through Macedonia.
  4. These accompanied him as far as Asia: Sopater of Beroea; Aristarchus and Secundus of the Thessalonians; Gaius of Derbe; Timothy; and Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia.
  5. But these had gone ahead, and were waiting for us at Troas.
  6. We sailed away from Philippi after the days of Unleavened Bread, and came to them at Troas in five days, where we stayed seven days.
  7. On the day one of the week, when the disciples were gathered together to break bread, Paul talked with them, intending to depart on the next day, and continued his speech until midnight.
  8. there were a lot lights in the upper room where we were gathered together.
  9. A certain young man named Eutychus sat in the window, weighed down with deep sleep. As Paul spoke still longer, being weighed down by his sleep, he fell down from the third story, and was taken up dead.
 10. Paul went down, and fell upon him, and embracing him said, “Don’t be troubled, for his life is in him.”
 11. When he had gone up, and had broken bread, and eaten, and had talked with them a long while, even until break of day, he departed.
 12. They brought the boy in alive, and were greatly comforted.
 13. But we who went ahead to the ship set sail for Assos, intending to grab Paul aboard there, for he had so arranged, intending himself to slide by land.
 14. When he met us at Assos, we took him aboard, and came to Mitylene.
 15. Sailing from there, we came the following day opposite Chios. The next day we touched at Samos and stayed at Trogyllium, and the day after we came to Miletus.
 16. For Paul had determined to sail past Ephesus, that he might not have to spend time in Asia; for he was hastening, if it were possible for him, to be in Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost.
 17. From Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called to himself the elders of the assembly.
 18. When they had come through to him, he said to them, “You yourselves get it, from the day one that I set foot in Asia, how I was with you all the time,
 19. serving the boss with all humility, with a lot tears, and with trials which happened to me by the plots of the Jews;
 20. how I didn’t shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable, teaching you publicly and from house to house,
 21. testifying both to Jews and to Greeks repentance toward God, and trusting the process toward our boss Jesus.
 22. now, check this out, I slide bound by the Spirit to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there;
 23. except that the set apart Spirit testifies in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions wait for me.
 24. But these things don’t count; nor do I hold my life dear to myself, so that I may finish my race with joy, and the ministry which I received from the boss Jesus, to fully testify to the fire News of the God's show love of God.
 25. “now, check this out, I get it that you all, among whom I went about preaching the God's squad of God, will check it out my face no more.
 26. so basically I testify to you this day that I am clean from the blood of all men,
 27. for I didn’t shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God.
 28. grab heed, so basically, to yourselves, and to all the flock, in which the set apart Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the assembly of the boss and God which he purchased with his own blood.
 29. For I get it that after my departure, vicious wolves will enter in among you, not sparing the flock.
 30. Men will arise from among your own selves, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after them.
 31. so basically watch, remembering that for a period of three years I didn’t cease to admonish everyone night and day with tears.
 32. now, brothers, I entrust you to God, and to the word of his God's show love, which is able to put together up, and to hook it up you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.
 33. I coveted no one’s silver, or gold, or clothing.
 34. You yourselves get it that these hands served my necessities, and those who were with me.
 35. In all things I gave you an example, that so laboring you ought to help out the not it, and to remember the words of the boss Jesus, that he himself said, ‘It is more blessed up to hook it up than to receive.’”
 36. When he had spoken these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all.
 37. They all wept a lot, and fell on Paul’s neck and kissed him,
 38. sorrowing most of all cuz of the word which he had spoken, that they should check it out his face no more. And they accompanied him to the ship.

# Acts Chapter 21

  1. When it happened that we had parted from them and had set sail, we came with a straight course to Cos, and the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara.
  2. Having found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, we went aboard, and set sail.
  3. When we had come through in sight of Cyprus, leaving it on the left hand, we sailed to Syria, and landed at Tyre, for there the ship was to unload her cargo.
  4. Having found disciples, we stayed there seven days. These said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not slide up to Jerusalem.
  5. When it happened that we had accomplished the days, we departed and went on our journey. They all, with wives and children, brought us on our way until we were out of the city. Kneeling down on the beach, we prayed.
  6. After saying goodbye to each other, we went on board the ship, and they returned home again.
  7. When we had finished the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais. We greeted the brothers, and stayed with them one day.
  8. On the next day, we, who were Paul’s companions, departed, and came to Caesarea. We entered into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, and stayed with him.
  9. now this man had four virgin daughters who prophesied.
 10. As we stayed there some days, a certain God's messenger named Agabus came down from Judea.
 11. Coming to us, and taking Paul’s belt, he bound his own feet and hands, and said, “Thus says the set apart Spirit: ‘So will the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man who owns this belt, and will deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.’”
 12. When we heard these things, both we and they of that place begged him not to slide up to Jerusalem.
 13. then Paul answered, “What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the boss Jesus.”
 14. When he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, “The boss’s will be done.”
 15. After these days we took up our baggage and went up to Jerusalem.
 16. Some of the disciples from Caesarea also went with us, bringing one Mnason of Cyprus, an early Jesus' crew, with whom we would stay.
 17. When we had come through to Jerusalem, the brothers received us gladly.
 18. The day following, Paul went in with us to James; and all the elders were present.
 19. When he had greeted them, he reported one by one the things which God had worked among the Gentiles through his ministry.
 20. They, when they heard it, glorified God. They said to him, “You check it out, brother, how a lot thousands there are among the Jews of those who have believed, and they are all zealous for the law.
 21. They have been informed about you, that you drop knowledge all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children neither to walk after the customs.
 22. What then? The assembly must for sure meet, for they will hear that you have come through.
 23. so basically do what we tell you. We have four men who have taken a vow.
 24. grab them, and purify yourself with them, and pay their expenses for them, that they may shave their heads. then all will get it that there is no truth in the things that they have been informed about you, but that you yourself also walk keeping the law.
 25. But concerning the Gentiles who believe, we have written our decision that they should observe no such thing, except that they should keep themselves from food offered to idols, from blood, from strangled things, and from sexual immorality.”
 26. then Paul took the men, and the next day, purified himself and went with them into the God's house, declaring the fulfillment of the days of purification, until the giving to God was offered for every one of them.
 27. When the seven days were almost completed, the Jews from Asia, when they checked out him in the God's house, stirred up all the multitude and laid hands on him,
 28. crying out, “Men of Israel, help out! This is the man who teaches all men everywhere against the people, and the law, and this place. Moreover, he also brought Greeks into the God's house, and has defiled this set apart place!”
 29. For they had seen Trophimus, the Ephesian, with him in the city, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the God's house.
 30. All the city was moved, and the people ran together. They seized Paul and dragged him out of the God's house. Immediately the doors were shut.
 31. As they were trying to kill him, news came up to the commanding officer of the regiment that all Jerusalem was in an uproar.
 32. Immediately he took soldiers and centurions, and ran down to them. They, when they checked out the chief captain and the soldiers, stopped beating Paul.
 33. then the commanding officer came near, arrested him, commanded him to be bound with two chains, and inquired who he was and what he had done.
 34. Some shouted one thing, and some another, among the crowd. When he couldn’t find out the truth cuz of the noise, he commanded him to be brought into the barracks.
 35. When he came to the stairs, it happened that he was carried by the soldiers cuz of the violence of the crowd;
 36. for the multitude of the people followed after, crying out, “Away with him!”
 37. As Paul was about to be brought into the barracks, he asked the commanding officer, “May I spill the tea to you?” He said, “Do you get it Greek?
 38. Aren’t you then the Egyptian, who before these days stirred up to sedition and led out into the wilderness the four thousand men of the Assassins?”
 39. But Paul said, “I am a Jew, from Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no insignificant city. I beg you, allow me to spill the tea to the people.”
 40. When he had given him permission, Paul, standing on the stairs, beckoned with his hand to the people. When there was a major silence, he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, saying,

# Acts Chapter 22

  1. “Brothers and fathers, listen up to the defense which I now create to you.”
  2. When they heard that he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, they were even more quiet. He said,
  3. “I am facts a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, instructed according to the strict tradition of the law of our fathers, being zealous for God, even as you all are this day.
  4. I persecuted this Way to the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women.
  5. As also the high priest and all the council of the elders testify, from whom also I received letters to the brothers, and traveled to Damascus to bring them also who were there to Jerusalem in bonds to be punished.
  6. It happened that, as I made my journey, and came close to Damascus, about noon, suddenly there shone from the sky a major light around me.
  7. I fell to the ground, and heard a voice saying to me, ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?’
  8. I answered, ‘Who are you, boss?’ He said to me, ‘I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you persecute.’
  9. “Those who were with me facts checked out the light and were scared, but they didn’t understand the voice of him who spoke to me.
 10. I said, ‘What shall I do, boss?’ The boss said to me, ‘Arise, and slide into Damascus. there you will be told about all things which are appointed for you to do.’
 11. When I couldn’t check it out for the glory of that light, being led by the hand of those who were with me, I came into Damascus.
 12. One Ananias, a devout man according to the law, well reported of by all the Jews who lived in Damascus,
 13. came to me, and standing by me said to me, ‘Brother Saul, receive your sight!’ In that hella hour I looked up at him.
 14. He said, ‘The God of our fathers has appointed you to get it his will, and to check it out the doing what's right One, and to hear a voice from his mouth.
 15. For you will be a witness for him to all men of what you have seen and heard.
 16. now why do you wait? Arise, be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on the name of the boss.’
 17. “It happened that, when I had returned to Jerusalem, and while I prayed in the God's house, I fell into a trance,
 18. and checked out him saying to me, ‘Hurry and get out of Jerusalem quickly, cuz they will not receive testimony concerning me from you.’
 19. I said, ‘boss, they themselves get it that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue those who believed in you.
 20. When the blood of Stephen, your witness, was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting to his death, and guarding the cloaks of those who killed him.’
 21. “He said to me, ‘Depart, for I will send you out far from here to the Gentiles.’”
 22. They listened to him until he said that; then they lifted up their voice, and said, “Rid the earth of this fellow, for he isn’t fit to live!”
 23. As they cried out, and threw off their cloaks, and threw dust into the air,
 24. the commanding officer commanded him to be brought into the barracks, ordering him to be examined by scourging, that he might get it for what crime they shouted against him like that.
 25. When they had tied him up with thongs, Paul asked the centurion who stood by, “Is it lawful for you to scourge a man who is a Roman, and not found guilty?”
 26. When the centurion heard it, he went to the commanding officer and told him, “Watch what you are about to do, for this man is a Roman!”
 27. The commanding officer came and asked him, “Tell me, are you a Roman?” He said, “Yes.”
 28. The commanding officer answered, “I bought my citizenship for a major price.” Paul said, “But I was born a Roman.”
 29. Immediately those who were about to examine him departed from him, and the commanding officer also was scared when he realized that he was a Roman, cuz he had bound him.
 30. But on the next day, desiring to get it the truth about why he was accused by the Jews, he freed him from the bonds, and commanded the chief priests and all the council to come through together, and brought Paul down and set him before them.

# Acts Chapter 23

  1. Paul, looking steadfastly at the council, said, “Brothers, I have lived before God in all fire conscience until this day.”
  2. The high priest, Ananias, commanded those who stood by him to strike him on the mouth.
  3. then Paul said to him, “God will strike you, you whitewashed wall! Do you sit to judge me according to the law, and command me to be struck contrary to the law?”
  4. Those who stood by said, “Do you malign God’s high priest?”
  5. Paul said, “I didn’t get it, brothers, that he was high priest. For it is written, ‘You shall not spill the tea evil of a ruler of your people.’”
  6. But when Paul perceived that the one part were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, “Men and brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees. Concerning the hope and resurrection of the dead I am being judged!”
  7. When he had said this, an argument arose between the Pharisees and Sadducees, and the assembly was divided.
  8. For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, nor angel, nor spirit; but the Pharisees confess all of these.
  9. A major clamor arose, and some of the scribes of the Pharisees part stood up, and contended, saying, “We find no evil in this man. But if a spirit or angel has spoken to him, let’s not fight against God!”
 10. When a major argument arose, the commanding officer, fearing that Paul would be torn in pieces by them, commanded the soldiers to slide down and grab him by force from among them, and bring him into the barracks.
 11. The following night, the boss stood by him, and said, “Cheer up, Paul, for as you have testified about me at Jerusalem, so you must testify also at Rome.”
 12. When it was day, some of the Jews banded together, and bound themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nor drink until they had killed Paul.
 13. there were more than forty people who had made this conspiracy.
 14. They came to the chief priests and the elders, and said, “We have bound ourselves under a major curse, to taste nothing until we have killed Paul.
 15. now so basically, you with the council inform the commanding officer that he should bring him down to you tomorrow, as though you were going to judge his case more exactly. We are ready to kill him before he comes near.”
 16. But Paul’s sister’s son heard of their lying in wait, and he came and entered into the barracks and told Paul.
 17. Paul summoned one of the centurions, and said, “Bring this young man to the commanding officer, for he has something to tell him.”
 18. So he took him, and brought him to the commanding officer, and said, “Paul, the prisoner, summoned me and asked me to bring this young man to you, who has something to tell you.”
 19. The commanding officer took him by the hand, and going aside, asked him privately, “What is it that you have to tell me?”
 20. He said, “The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul down to the council tomorrow, as though intending to inquire somewhat more accurately concerning him.
 21. so basically don’t yield to them, for more than forty men lie in wait for him, who have bound themselves under a curse neither to eat nor to drink until they have killed him. now they are ready, looking for the promise from you.”
 22. So the commanding officer let the young man slide, charging him, “Tell no one that you have revealed these things to me.”
 23. He called to himself two of the centurions, and said, “Prepare two hundred soldiers to slide as far as Caesarea, with seventy horsemen, and two hundred men armed with spears, at the third hour of the night.”
 24. He asked them to provide animals, that they might set Paul on one, and bring him safely to Felix the governor.
 25. He wrote a letter like this:
 26. “Claudius Lysias to the most excellent governor Felix: Greetings.
 27. “This man was seized by the Jews, and was about to be killed by them, when I came with the soldiers and rescued him, having learned that he was a Roman.
 28. Desiring to get it the cause why they accused him, I brought him down to their council.
 29. I found him to be accused about questions of their law, but not to be charged with anything worthy of death or of imprisonment.
 30. When I was told that the Jews lay in wait for the man, I sent him to you immediately, charging his accusers also to bring their accusations against him before you. Farewell.”
 31. So the soldiers, carrying out their orders, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris.
 32. But on the next day they left the horsemen to slide with him, and returned to the barracks.
 33. When they came to Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, they also presented Paul to him.
 34. When the governor had read it, he asked what province he was from. When he understood that he was from Cilicia, he said,
 35. “I will hear you fully when your accusers also arrive.” He commanded that he be kept in Herod’s palace.

# Acts Chapter 24

  1. After five days, the high priest, Ananias, came down with certain elders and an orator, one Tertullus. They informed the governor against Paul.
  2. When he was called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, “Seeing that by you we enjoy much peace, and that excellent measures are coming to this nation,
  3. we accept it in all ways and in all places, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness.
  4. But, that I don’t delay you, I entreat you to bear with us and hear a not much words.
  5. For we have found this man to be a plague, an instigator of insurrections among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes.
  6. He even tried to profane the God's house, and we arrested him.
  8. By examining him yourself you may ascertain all these things of which we accuse him.”
  9. The Jews also joined in the attack, affirming that these things were so.
 10. When the governor had beckoned to him to spill the tea, Paul answered, “cuz I get it that you have been a judge of this nation for a lot years, I cheerfully create my defense,
 11. seeing that you can recognize that it is not more than twelve days since I went up to giving props at Jerusalem.
 12. In the God's house they didn’t find me disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd, either in the synagogues, or in the city.
 13. Nor can they prove to you the things of which they now accuse me.
 14. But this I confess to you, that after the Way, which they call a sect, so I help out the God of our fathers, believing all things which are according to the law, and which are written in the prophets;
 15. having hope toward God, which these also themselves look for, that there will be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust.
 16. Herein I also practice always having a conscience void of offense toward God and men.
 17. now after some years, I came to bring gifts for the needy to my nation, and offerings;
 18. amid which certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the God's house, not with a mob, nor with turmoil.
 19. They ought to have been here before you, and to create accusation, if they had anything against me.
 20. Or else let these men themselves say what injustice they found in me when I stood before the council,
 21. unless it is for this one thing that I cried standing among them, ‘Concerning the resurrection of the dead I am being judged before you today!’”
 22. But Felix, having more exact knowledge concerning the Way, deferred them, saying, “When Lysias, the commanding officer, comes down, I will decide your case.”
 23. He ordered the centurion that Paul should be kept in custody, and should have some privileges, and not to forbid any of his friends to help out him or to visit him.
 24. But after some days, Felix came with Drusilla, his wife, who was a Jewess, and sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the trusting the process in anointed one Jesus.
 25. As he reasoned about righteousness, self-control, and the judgment to come through, Felix was terrified, and answered, “slide your way for this time, and when it is convenient for me, I will summon you.”
 26. Meanwhile, he also hoped that money would be given to him by Paul, that he might release him. so basically also he sent for him more a lot, and talked with him.
 27. But when two years were fulfilled, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus, and desiring to gain favor with the Jews, Felix left Paul in bonds.

# Acts Chapter 25

  1. Festus so basically, having come through into the province, after three days went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.
  2. then the high priest and the principal men of the Jews informed him against Paul, and they begged him,
  3. asking a favor against him, that he would summon him to Jerusalem; plotting to kill him on the way.
  4. but like Festus answered that Paul should be kept in custody at Caesarea, and that he himself was about to depart shortly.
  5. “Let them so basically,” said he, “that are in power among you slide down with me, and if there is anything wrong in the man, let them accuse him.”
  6. When he had stayed among them more than ten days, he went down to Caesarea, and on the next day he sat on the judgment seat, and commanded Paul to be brought.
  7. When he had come through, the Jews who had come through down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing against him a lot and grievous charges which they could not prove,
  8. while he said in his defense, “Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the God's house, nor against Caesar, have I sinned at all.”
  9. But Festus, desiring to gain favor with the Jews, answered Paul and said, “Are you willing to slide up to Jerusalem, and be judged by me there concerning these things?”
 10. But Paul said, “I am standing before Caesar’s judgment seat, where I ought to be tried. I have done no wrong to the Jews, as you also get it hella well.
 11. For if I have done wrong, and have committed anything worthy of death, I don’t refuse to die; but if none of those things is true that they accuse me of, no one can hook it up me up to them. I appeal to Caesar!”
 12. then Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered, “You have appealed to Caesar. To Caesar you shall slide.”
 13. now when some days had passed, ruler Agrippa and Bernice arrived at Caesarea, and greeted Festus.
 14. As he stayed there a lot days, Festus laid Paul’s case before the ruler, saying, “there is a certain man left a prisoner by Felix;
 15. about whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews informed me, asking for a sentence against him.
 16. To whom I answered that it is not the custom of the Romans to hook it up up any man to destruction, before the accused has met the accusers face to face, and has had opportunity to create his defense concerning the matter laid against him.
 17. When so basically they had come through together here, I didn’t delay, but on the next day sat on the judgment seat, and commanded the man to be brought.
 18. Concerning whom, when the accusers stood up, they brought no charge of such things as I supposed;
 19. but had certain questions against him about their own religion, and about one Jesus, who was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive.
 20. Being perplexed how to inquire concerning these things, I asked whether he was willing to slide to Jerusalem and there be judged concerning these matters.
 21. But when Paul had appealed to be kept for the decision of the emperor, I commanded him to be kept until I could send him to Caesar.”
 22. Agrippa said to Festus, “I also would like to hear the man myself.” “Tomorrow,” he said, “you shall hear him.”
 23. So on the next day, when Agrippa and Bernice had come through with major pomp, and they had entered into the place of hearing with the commanding officers and principal men of the city, at the command of Festus, Paul was brought in.
 24. Festus said, “ruler Agrippa, and all men who are here present with us, you check it out this man, about whom all the multitude of the Jews petitioned me, both at Jerusalem and here, crying that he ought not to live any longer.
 25. But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death, and as he himself appealed to the emperor I determined to send him.
 26. Of whom I have no certain thing to write to my boss. so basically I have brought him forth before you, and especially before you, ruler Agrippa, that, after examination, I may have something to write.
 27. For it seems to me unreasonable, in sending a prisoner, not to also specify the charges against him.”

# Acts Chapter 26

  1. Agrippa said to Paul, “You may spill the tea for yourself.” then Paul stretched out his hand, and made his defense.
  2. “I think myself vibing, ruler Agrippa, that I am to create my defense before you this day concerning all the things that I am accused by the Jews,
  3. especially cuz you are expert in all customs and questions which are among the Jews. so basically I beg you to hear me patiently.
  4. “facts, all the Jews get it my way of life from my youth up, which was from the beginning among my own nation and at Jerusalem;
  5. having known me from the first, if they are willing to testify, that after the strictest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.
  6. now I stand here to be judged for the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers,
  7. which our twelve tribes, earnestly serving night and day, hope to attain. Concerning this hope I am accused by the Jews, ruler Agrippa!
  8. Why is it judged incredible with you, if God does raise the dead?
  9. “I myself most for sure thought that I ought to do a lot things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
 10. This I also did in Jerusalem. I both shut up a lot of the saints in prisons, having received authority from the chief priests, and when they were put to death I gave my vote against them.
 11. Punishing them a lot in all the synagogues, I tried to create them blaspheme. Being exceedingly enraged against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities.
 12. “Whereupon as I traveled to Damascus with the authority and commission from the chief priests,
 13. at noon, O ruler, I checked out on the way a light from the sky, brighter than the sun, shining around me and those who traveled with me.
 14. When we had all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.’
 15. “I said, ‘Who are you, boss?’ “He said, ‘I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.
 16. But arise, and stand on your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose: to appoint you a helper and a witness both of the things which you have seen, and of the things which I will reveal to you;
 17. delivering you from the people, and from the Gentiles, to whom I send you,
 18. to open their eyes, that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive remission of sins and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by trusting the process in me.’
 19. “so basically, ruler Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,
 20. but declared first to them of Damascus, at Jerusalem, and throughout all the country of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, that they should turn it around and turn to God, doing works worthy of repentance.
 21. For this reason the Jews seized me in the God's house, and tried to kill me.
 22. Having so basically obtained the help out that is from God, I stand to this day testifying both to tiny and major, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would happen,
 23. how the anointed one must suffer, and how, by the resurrection of the dead, he would be first to proclaim light both to these people and to the Gentiles.”
 24. As he thus made his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, “Paul, you are crazy! Your major learning is driving you insane!”
 25. But he said, “I am not crazy, most excellent Festus, but boldly declare words of truth and reasonableness.
 26. For the ruler knows of these things, to whom also I spill the tea freely. For I am persuaded that none of these things is hidden from him, for this has not been done in a corner.
 27. ruler Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I get it that you believe.”
 28. Agrippa said to Paul, “With a little persuasion are you trying to create me a Christian?”
 29. Paul said, “I pray to God, that whether with little or with much, not only you, but also all that hear me this day, might become such as I am, except for these bonds.”
 30. The ruler rose up with the governor, and Bernice, and those who sat with them.
 31. When they had withdrawn, they spoke one to another, saying, “This man does nothing worthy of death or of bonds.”
 32. Agrippa said to Festus, “This man might have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar.”

# Acts Chapter 27

  1. When it was determined that we should sail for Italy, they delivered Paul and certain other prisoners to a centurion named Julius, of the Augustan band.
  2. Embarking in a ship of Adramyttium, which was about to sail to places on the coast of Asia, we put to sea; Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us.
  3. The next day, we touched at Sidon. Julius treated Paul kindly, and gave him permission to slide to his friends and refresh himself.
  4. Putting to sea from there, we sailed under the lee of Cyprus, cuz the winds were contrary.
  5. When we had sailed across the sea which is off Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra, a city of Lycia.
  6. there the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing for Italy, and he put us on board.
  7. When we had sailed slowly a lot days, and had come through with difficulty opposite Cnidus, the wind not allowing us further, we sailed under the lee of Crete, opposite Salmone.
  8. With difficulty sailing along it we came to a certain place called Fair Havens, near the city of Lasea.
  9. When much time had passed and the voyage was now dangerous, cuz the Fast had now already gone by, Paul admonished them,
 10. and said to them, “Sirs, I perceive that the voyage will be with injury and much loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives.”
 11. But the centurion gave more heed to the boss and to the owner of the ship than to those things which were spoken by Paul.
 12. cuz the haven was not suitable to winter in, the majority advised going to sea from there, if by any means they could reach Phoenix, and winter there, which is a port of Crete, looking northeast and southeast.
 13. When the south wind blew softly, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed along Crete, close to shore.
 14. But before long, a stormy wind beat down from shore, which is called Euroclydon.
 15. When the ship was caught, and couldn’t face the wind, we gave way to it, and were driven along.
 16. Running under the lee of a tiny island called Clauda, we were able, with difficulty, to secure the boat.
 17. After they had hoisted it up, they used cables to help out reinforce the ship. Fearing that they would run aground on the Syrtis sand bars, they lowered the sea anchor, and so were driven along.
 18. As we labored exceedingly with the storm, the next day they began to throw things overboard.
 19. On the day three, they threw out the ship’s tackle with their own hands.
 20. When neither sun nor stars shone on us for a lot days, and no tiny storm pressed on us, all hope that we would be saved was now taken away.
 21. When they had been long without food, Paul stood up in the middle of them, and said, “Sirs, you should have listened to me, and not have set sail from Crete, and have gotten this injury and loss.
 22. now I exhort you to cheer up, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship.
 23. For there stood by me this night an angel, belonging to the God whose I am and whom I help out,
 24. saying, ‘Don’t be scared, Paul. You must stand before Caesar. check this out, God has granted you all those who sail with you.’
 25. so basically, sirs, cheer up! For I believe God, that it will be just as it has been spoken to me.
 26. But we must run aground on a certain island.”
 27. But when the fourteenth night had come through, as we were driven back and forth in the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the sailors surmised that they were drawing near to some land.
 28. They took soundings, and found twenty fathoms. After a little while, they took soundings again, and found fifteen fathoms.
 29. Fearing that we would run aground on rocky ground, they let slide four anchors from the stern, and wished for daylight.
 30. As the sailors were trying to flee out of the ship, and had lowered the boat into the sea, pretending that they would lay out anchors from the bow,
 31. Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, “Unless these stay in the ship, you can’t be saved.”
 32. then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the boat, and let it fall off.
 33. While the day was coming on, Paul begged them all to grab some food, saying, “This day is the fourteenth day that you wait and continue fasting, having taken nothing.
 34. so basically I beg you to grab some food, for this is for your safety; for not a hair will perish from any of your heads.”
 35. When he had said this, and had taken bread, he gave thanks to God in the presence of all, and he broke it, and began to eat.
 36. then they all cheered up, and they also took food.
 37. In all, we were two hundred seventy-six souls on the ship.
 38. When they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea.
 39. When it was day, they didn’t recognize the land, but they noticed a certain bay with a beach, and they decided to try to drive the ship onto it.
 40. Casting off the anchors, they left them in the sea, at the same time untying the rudder ropes. Hoisting up the foresail to the wind, they made for the beach.
 41. But coming to a place where two seas met, they ran the vessel aground. The bow struck and remained immovable, but the stern began to break up by the violence of the waves.
 42. The soldiers’ counsel was to kill the prisoners, so that none of them would swim out and escape.
 43. But the centurion, desiring to rescue Paul, stopped them from their purpose, and commanded that those who could swim should throw themselves overboard first to slide toward the land;
 44. and the rest should roll with, some on planks, and some on other things from the ship. So it happened that they all escaped safely to the land.

# Acts Chapter 28

  1. When we had escaped, then they learned that the island was called Malta.
  2. The natives showed us uncommon kindness; for they kindled a fire, and received us all, cuz of the present rain, and cuz of the cold.
  3. But when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and laid them on the fire, a viper came out cuz of the heat, and fastened on his hand.
  4. When the natives checked out the creature hanging from his hand, they said one to another, “No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he has escaped from the sea, yet Justice has not allowed to live.”
  5. but like he shook off the creature into the fire, and wasn’t harmed.
  6. But they expected that he would have swollen or fallen down dead suddenly, but when they watched for a long time and checked out nothing trash happen to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a god.
  7. now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius, who received us, and courteously entertained us for three days.
  8. It happened that the father of Publius lay sick of fever and dysentery. Paul entered in to him, prayed, and laying his hands on him, healed him.
  9. then when this was done, the rest also who had diseases in the island came, and were cured.
 10. They also honored us with a lot honors, and when we sailed, they put on board the things that we needed.
 11. After three months, we set sail in a ship of Alexandria which had wintered in the island, whose sign was “The Twin Brothers.”
 12. Touching at Syracuse, we stayed there three days.
 13. From there we circled around and arrived at Rhegium. After one day, a south wind sprang up, and on the day two we came to Puteoli,
 14. where we found brothers, and were entreated to stay with them for seven days. So we came to Rome.
 15. From there the brothers, when they heard of us, came to meet us as far as The Market of Appius and The Three Taverns. When Paul checked out them, he thanked God, and took courage.
 16. When we entered into Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the captain of the guard, but Paul was allowed to stay by himself with the soldier who guarded him.
 17. It happened that after three days Paul called together those who were the leaders of the Jews. When they had come through together, he said to them, “I, brothers, though I had done nothing against the people, or the customs of our fathers, still was delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans,
 18. who, when they had examined me, desired to set me free, cuz there was no cause of death in me.
 19. But when the Jews spoke against it, I was constrained to appeal to Caesar, not that I had anything about which to accuse my nation.
 20. For this cause so basically I asked to check it out you and to spill the tea with you. For cuz of the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain.”
 21. They said to him, “We neither received letters from Judea concerning you, nor did any of the brothers come through here and report or spill the tea any evil of you.
 22. But we desire to hear from you what you think. For, as concerning this sect, it is known to us that everywhere it is spoken against.”
 23. When they had appointed him a day, a lot people came to him at his lodging. He explained to them, testifying about the God's squad of God, and persuading them concerning Jesus, both from the law of Moses and from the prophets, from morning until evening.
 24. Some believed the things which were spoken, and some disbelieved.
 25. When they didn’t agree among themselves, they departed after Paul had spoken one word, “The set apart Spirit spoke rightly through Isaiah, the God's messenger, to our fathers,
 26. saying, ‘slide to this people, and say, in hearing, you will hear, but will in no way understand. In seeing, you will check it out, but will in no way perceive.
 27. For this people’s heart has grown callous. Their ears are dull of hearing. Their eyes they have closed. Lest they should check it out with their eyes, hear with their ears, understand with their heart, and would turn again, and I would heal them.’
 28. “Be it known so basically to you, that the getting saved of God is sent to the nations. They will also listen up.”
 29. When he had said these words, the Jews departed, having a major dispute among themselves.
 30. Paul stayed two whole years in his own rented house, and received all who were coming to him,
 31. preaching the God's squad of God, and teaching the things concerning the boss Jesus anointed one with all boldness, without hindrance.


COLOSSIANS
----------

# Colossians Chapter 1

  1. Paul, an Jesus' main squad of anointed one Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy our brother,
  2. to the saints and faithful brothers in anointed one at Colossae: God's show love to you and peace from God our Father, and the boss Jesus anointed one.
  3. We hook it up thanks to God the Father of our boss Jesus anointed one, praying always for you,
  4. having heard of your trusting the process in anointed one Jesus, and of the show love which you have toward all the saints,
  5. cuz of the hope which is laid up for you in the heavens, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the fire News,
  6. which has come through to you; even as it is in all the world and is bearing fruit and growing, as it does in you also, since the day you heard and knew the God's show love of God in truth;
  7. even as you learned of Epaphras our beloved fellow helper, who is a faithful helper of anointed one on our behalf,
  8. who also declared to us your show love in the Spirit.
  9. For this cause, we also, since the day we heard this, don’t cease praying and making requests for you, that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding,
 10. that you may walk worthily of the boss, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every fire work, and increasing in the knowledge of God;
 11. strengthened with all power, according to the might of his glory, for all endurance and perseverance with joy;
 12. giving thanks to the Father, who made us fit to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light;
 13. who delivered us out of the power of darkness, and translated us into the God's squad of the Son of his show love;
 14. in whom we have our redemption, the forgiveness of our sins;
 15. who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation.
 16. For by him all things were created, in the heavens and on the earth, things visible and things invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers; all things have been created through him, and for him.
 17. He is before all things, and in him all things are held together.
 18. He is the head of the body, the assembly, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead; that in all things he might have the preeminence.
 19. For all the fullness was pleased to dwell in him;
 20. and through him to reconcile all things to himself, by him, whether things on the earth, or things in the heavens, having made peace through the blood of his cross.
 21. You, being in past times alienated and enemies in your mind in your evil works,
 22. yet now he has reconciled in the body of his flesh through death, to present you set apart and without blemish and blameless before him,
 23. if it is so that you continue in the trusting the process, grounded and steadfast, and not moved away from the hope of the fire News which you heard, which is being proclaimed in all creation under heaven; of which I, Paul, was made a helper.
 24. now I be hyped in my sufferings for your sake, and fill up on my part that which is lacking of the afflictions of anointed one in my flesh for his body’s sake, which is the assembly;
 25. of which I was made a helper, according to the stewardship of God which was given me toward you, to fulfill the word of God,
 26. the mystery which has been hidden for ages and generations. But now it has been revealed to his saints,
 27. to whom God was pleased to create known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is anointed one in you, the hope of glory;
 28. whom we proclaim, admonishing every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in anointed one Jesus;
 29. for which I also labor, striving according to his working, which works in me mightily.

# Colossians Chapter 2

  1. For I desire to have you get it how greatly I struggle for you, and for those at Laodicea, and for as a lot as have not seen my face in the flesh;
  2. that their hearts may be comforted, they being knit together in show love, and gaining all riches of the full assurance of understanding, that they may get it the mystery of God, both of the Father and of anointed one,
  3. in whom are all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge hidden.
  4. now this I say that no one may delude you with persuasiveness of speech.
  5. For though I am absent in the flesh, yet am I with you in the spirit, rejoicing and seeing your order, and the steadfastness of your trusting the process in anointed one.
  6. As so basically you received anointed one Jesus, the boss, walk in him,
  7. rooted and built up in him, and established in the trusting the process, even as you were taught, abounding in it in thanksgiving.
  8. Be careful that you don’t let anyone rob you through his philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the elements of the world, and not after anointed one.
  9. For in him all the fullness of the Godhead dwells bodily,
 10. and in him you are made full, who is the head of all principality and power;
 11. in whom you were also circumcised with a circumcision not made with hands, in the putting off of the body of the sins of the flesh, in the circumcision of anointed one;
 12. having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through trusting the process in the working of God, who raised him from the dead.
 13. You were dead through your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh. He made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses,
 14. wiping out the handwriting in ordinances which was against us; and he has taken it out of the way, nailing it to the cross;
 15. having stripped the principalities and the powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it.
 16. Let no one so basically judge you in eating, or in drinking, or with respect to a feast day or a new moon or a Sabbath day,
 17. which are a shadow of the things to come through; but the body is anointed one’s.
 18. Let no one rob you of your prize by a voluntary humility and worshipping of the angels, dwelling in the things which he has not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind,
 19. and not holding firmly to the Head, from whom all the body, being supplied and knit together through the joints and ligaments, grows with God’s growth.
 20. If you died with anointed one from the elements of the world, why, as though living in the world, do you subject yourselves to ordinances,
 21. “Don’t handle, nor taste, nor touch”
 22. (all of which perish with use), according to the precepts and doctrines of men?
 23. Which things facts appear like wisdom in self-imposed giving props, and humility, and severity to the body; but aren’t of any value against the indulgence of the flesh.

# Colossians Chapter 3

  1. If then you were raised together with anointed one, seek the things that are above, where anointed one is, seated on the right hand of God.
  2. Set your mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are on the earth.
  3. For you died, and your life is hidden with anointed one in God.
  4. When anointed one, our life, is revealed, then you will also be revealed with him in glory.
  5. Put to death so basically your members which are on the earth: sexual immorality, uncleanness, depraved passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry;
  6. for which things’ sake the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience.
  7. You also once walked in those, when you lived in them;
  8. but now you also put them all away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and shameful speaking out of your mouth.
  9. Don’t lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old man with his doings,
 10. and have put on the new man, who is being renewed in knowledge after the image of his Creator,
 11. where there can’t be Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondservant, freeman; but anointed one is all, and in all.
 12. Put on so basically, as God’s chosen ones, set apart and beloved, a heart of compassion, kindness, lowliness, humility, and perseverance;
 13. bearing with one another, and forgiving each other, if any man has a complaint against any; even as anointed one forgave you, so you also do.
 14. Above all these things, walk in show love, which is the bond of perfection.
 15. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body; and be thankful.
 16. Let the word of anointed one dwell in you richly; in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing with God's show love in your heart to the boss.
 17. Whatever you do, in word or in deed, do all in the name of the boss Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father, through him.
 18. Wives, be in subjection to your husbands, as is fitting in the boss.
 19. Husbands, show love your wives, and don’t be bitter against them.
 20. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this pleases the boss.
 21. Fathers, don’t provoke your children, so that they won’t be discouraged.
 22. Servants, obey in all things those who are your masters according to the flesh, not just when they are looking, as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God.
 23. And whatever you do, work heartily, as for the boss, and not for men,
 24. knowing that from the boss you will receive the reward of the inheritance; for you help out the boss anointed one.
 25. But he who does wrong will receive again for the wrong that he has done, and there is no partiality.

# Colossians Chapter 4

  1. Masters, hook it up to your servants that which is just and equal, knowing that you also have a boss in heaven.
  2. Continue steadfastly in talking to God, watching therein with thanksgiving;
  3. praying together for us also, that God may open to us a door for the word, to spill the tea the mystery of anointed one, for which I am also in bonds;
  4. that I may reveal it as I ought to spill the tea.
  5. Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time.
  6. Let your speech always be with God's show love, seasoned with salt, that you may get it how you ought to answer each one.
  7. All my affairs will be made known to you by Tychicus, the beloved brother, faithful helper, and fellow bondservant in the boss.
  8. I am sending him to you for this hella purpose, that he may get it your circumstances and comfort your hearts,
  9. together with Onesimus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will create known to you everything that is going on here.
 10. Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, and Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (concerning whom you received commandments, “if he comes to you, receive him”),
 11. and Jesus who is called Justus. These are my only fellow workers for the God's squad of God who are of the circumcision, men who have been a comfort to me.
 12. Epaphras, who is one of you, a helper of anointed one, salutes you, always striving for you in his prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.
 13. For I testify about him, that he has major zeal for you, and for those in Laodicea, and for those in Hierapolis.
 14. Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas greet you.
 15. Greet the brothers who are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the assembly that is in his house.
 16. When this letter has been read among you, cause it to be read also in the assembly of the Laodiceans; and that you also read the letter from Laodicea.
 17. Tell Archippus, “grab heed to the ministry which you have received in the boss, that you fulfill it.”
 18. The salutation of me, Paul, with my own hand: remember my bonds. God's show love be with you. facts.


EPHESIANS
---------

# Ephesians Chapter 1

  1. Paul, an Jesus' main squad of anointed one Jesus through the will of God, to the saints who are at Ephesus, and the faithful in anointed one Jesus:
  2. God's show love to you and peace from God our Father and the boss Jesus anointed one.
  3. blessed up be the God and Father of our boss Jesus anointed one, who has blessed up us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in anointed one;
  4. even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we would be set apart and without blemish before him in show love;
  5. having predestined us for adoption as children through Jesus anointed one to himself, according to the fire pleasure of his desire,
  6. to the praise of the glory of his God's show love, by which he freely bestowed favor on us in the Beloved,
  7. in whom we have our redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his God's show love,
  8. which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence,
  9. making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his fire pleasure which he purposed in him
 10. to an administration of the fullness of the times, to sum up all things in anointed one, the things in the heavens, and the things on the earth, in him;
 11. in whom also we were assigned an inheritance, having been foreordained according to the purpose of him who works all things after the counsel of his will;
 12. to the end that we should be to the praise of his glory, we who had before hoped in anointed one:
 13. in whom you also, having heard the word of the truth, the fire News of your getting saved—in whom, having also believed, you were sealed with the set apart Spirit of promise,
 14. who is a pledge of our inheritance, to the redemption of God’s own possession, to the praise of his glory.
 15. For this cause I also, having heard of the trusting the process in the boss Jesus which is among you, and the show love which you have toward all the saints,
 16. don’t cease to hook it up thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers,
 17. that the God of our boss Jesus anointed one, the Father of glory, may hook it up to you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him;
 18. having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may get it what is the hope of his calling, and what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints,
 19. and what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to that working of the strength of his might
 20. which he worked in anointed one, when he raised him from the dead, and made him to sit at his right hand in the heavenly places,
 21. far above all rule, and authority, and power, and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is to come through.
 22. He put all things in subjection under his feet, and gave him to be head over all things for the assembly,
 23. which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all.

# Ephesians Chapter 2

  1. You were made alive when you were dead in transgressions and sins,
  2. in which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the children of disobedience;
  3. among whom we also all once lived in the lust of our flesh, doing the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest.
  4. But God, being stacked in mercy, for his major show love with which he loved us,
  5. even when we were dead through our trespasses, made us alive together with anointed one (by God's show love you have been saved),
  6. and raised us up with him, and made us to sit with him in the heavenly places in anointed one Jesus,
  7. that in the ages to come through he might show the exceeding riches of his God's show love in kindness toward us in anointed one Jesus;
  8. for by God's show love you have been saved through trusting the process, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God,
  9. not of works, that no one would boast.
 10. For we are his workmanship, created in anointed one Jesus for fire works, which God prepared before that we would walk in them.
 11. so basically remember that once you, the Gentiles in the flesh, who are called “uncircumcision” by that which is called “circumcision,” (in the flesh, made by hands);
 12. that you were at that time separate from anointed one, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of the promise, having no hope and without God in the world.
 13. But now in anointed one Jesus you who once were far off are made near in the blood of anointed one.
 14. For he is our peace, who made both one, and broke down the middle wall of partition,
 15. having abolished in the flesh the hostility, the law of commandments contained in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man of the two, making peace;
 16. and might reconcile them both in one body to God through the cross, having killed the hostility thereby.
 17. He came and preached peace to you who were far off and to those who were near.
 18. For through him we both have our access in one Spirit to the Father.
 19. So then you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but you are fellow citizens with the saints, and of the household of God,
 20. being built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, anointed one Jesus himself being the chief cornerstone;
 21. in whom the whole building, fitted together, grows into a set apart God's house in the boss;
 22. in whom you also are built together for a habitation of God in the Spirit.

# Ephesians Chapter 3

  1. For this cause I, Paul, am the prisoner of anointed one Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles,
  2. if it is so that you have heard of the administration of that God's show love of God which was given me toward you;
  3. how that by revelation the mystery was made known to me, as I wrote before in not much words,
  4. by which, when you read, you can perceive my understanding in the mystery of anointed one;
  5. which in other generations was not made known to the children of men, as it has now been revealed to his set apart apostles and prophets in the Spirit;
  6. that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, and fellow members of the body, and fellow partakers of his promise in anointed one Jesus through the fire News,
  7. of which I was made a helper, according to the gift of that God's show love of God which was given me according to the working of his power.
  8. To me, the hella least of all saints, was this God's show love given, to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of anointed one,
  9. and to create all men check it out what is the administration of the mystery which for ages has been hidden in God, who created all things through Jesus anointed one;
 10. to the intent that now through the assembly the manifold wisdom of God might be made known to the principalities and the powers in the heavenly places,
 11. according to the eternal purpose which he purposed in anointed one Jesus our boss;
 12. in whom we have boldness and access in confidence through our trusting the process in him.
 13. so basically I ask that you may not lose heart at my troubles for you, which are your glory.
 14. For this cause, I bow my knees to the Father of our boss Jesus anointed one,
 15. from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named,
 16. that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, that you may be strengthened with power through his Spirit in the inward man;
 17. that anointed one may dwell in your hearts through trusting the process; to the end that you, being rooted and grounded in show love,
 18. may be strengthened to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth,
 19. and to get it anointed one’s show love which surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.
 20. now to him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works in us,
 21. to him be the glory in the assembly and in anointed one Jesus to all generations forever and ever. facts.

# Ephesians Chapter 4

  1. I so basically, the prisoner in the boss, beg you to walk worthily of the calling with which you were called,
  2. with all lowliness and humility, with patience, bearing with one another in show love;
  3. being eager to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
  4. there is one body, and one Spirit, even as you also were called in one hope of your calling;
  5. one boss, one trusting the process, one baptism,
  6. one God and Father of all, who is over all, and through all, and in us all.
  7. But to each one of us was the God's show love given according to the measure of the gift of anointed one.
  8. so basically he says, “When he ascended on high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts to men.”
  9. now this, “He ascended,” what is it but that he also first descended into the lower parts of the earth?
 10. He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things.
 11. He gave some to be apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, shepherds and teachers;
 12. for the perfecting of the saints, to the work of serving, to the building up of the body of anointed one;
 13. until we all attain to the unity of the trusting the process, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a full grown man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of anointed one;
 14. that we may no longer be children, tossed back and forth and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, in craftiness, after the wiles of error;
 15. but speaking truth in show love, we may grow up in all things into him, who is the head, anointed one;
 16. from whom all the body, being fitted and knit together through that which every joint supplies, according to the working in measure of each individual part, makes the body increase to the building up of itself in show love.
 17. This I say so basically, and testify in the boss, that you no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles also walk, in the futility of their mind,
 18. being darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God, cuz of the ignorance that is in them, cuz of the hardening of their hearts;
 19. who having become callous gave themselves up to lust, to work all uncleanness with greediness.
 20. But you did not pick up anointed one that way;
 21. if facts you heard him, and were taught in him, even as truth is in Jesus:
 22. that you put away, as concerning your former way of life, the old man, that grows corrupt after the lusts of deceit;
 23. and that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind,
 24. and put on the new man, who in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of truth.
 25. so basically, putting away falsehood, spill the tea truth each one with his neighbor. For we are members of one another.
 26. “Be mad salty, and don’t messing up.” Don’t let the sun slide down on your wrath,
 27. neither hook it up place to the devil.
 28. Let him who stole steal no more; but rather let him labor, working with his hands the thing that is fire, that he may have something to hook it up to him who has need.
 29. Let no corrupt speech proceed out of your mouth, but such as is fire for building up as the need may be, that it may hook it up God's show love to those who hear.
 30. Don’t grieve the set apart Spirit of God, in whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.
 31. Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, outcry, and slander, be put away from you, with all malice.
 32. And be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving each other, just as God also in anointed one forgave you.

# Ephesians Chapter 5

  1. Be so basically imitators of God, as beloved children.
  2. Walk in show love, even as anointed one also loved you, and gave himself up for us, an giving to God and a giving it up to God for a sweet-smelling fragrance.
  3. But sexual immorality, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not even be mentioned among you, as becomes saints;
  4. nor filthiness, nor dumb talking, nor jesting, which are not appropriate; but rather giving of thanks.
  5. get it this for sure, that no sexually immoral person, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the God's squad of anointed one and God.
  6. Let no one deceive you with empty words. For cuz of these things, the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience.
  7. so basically don’t be partakers with them.
  8. For you were once darkness, but are now light in the boss. Walk as children of light,
  9. for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth,
 10. proving what is well pleasing to the boss.
 11. Have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather even reprove them.
 12. For the things which are done by them in secret, it is a shame even to spill the tea of.
 13. But all things, when they are reproved, are revealed by the light, for everything that reveals is light.
 14. so basically he says, “Awake, you who sleep, and arise from the dead, and anointed one will shine on you.”
 15. so basically watch carefully how you walk, not as unwise, but as smart;
 16. redeeming the time, cuz the days are evil.
 17. so basically don’t be dumb, but understand what the will of the boss is.
 18. Don’t be drunken with wine, in which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit,
 19. speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs; singing, and making melody in your heart to the boss;
 20. giving thanks always concerning all things in the name of our boss Jesus anointed one, to God, even the Father;
 21. subjecting yourselves one to another in the fear of anointed one.
 22. Wives, be subject to your own husbands, as to the boss.
 23. For the husband is the head of the wife, and anointed one also is the head of the assembly, being himself the savior of the body.
 24. But as the assembly is subject to anointed one, so let the wives also be to their own husbands in everything.
 25. Husbands, show love your wives, even as anointed one also loved the assembly, and gave himself up for it;
 26. that he might sanctify it, having cleansed it by the washing of water with the word,
 27. that he might present the assembly to himself gloriously, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing; but that it should be set apart and without blemish.
 28. Even so husbands also ought to show love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself.
 29. For no man ever hated his own flesh; but nourishes and cherishes it, even as the boss also does the assembly;
 30. cuz we are members of his body, of his flesh and bones.
 31. “For this cause a man will leave his father and mother, and will be joined to his wife. The two will become one flesh.”
 32. This mystery is major, but I spill the tea concerning anointed one and of the assembly.
 33. Nevertheless each of you must also show love his own wife even as himself; and let the wife check it out that she respects her husband.

# Ephesians Chapter 6

  1. Children, obey your parents in the boss, for this is right.
  2. “Honor your father and mother,” which is the first commandment with a promise:
  3. “that it may be well with you, and you may live long on the earth.”
  4. You fathers, don’t provoke your children to wrath, but nurture them in the discipline and instruction of the boss.
  5. Servants, be obedient to those who according to the flesh are your masters, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as to anointed one;
  6. not in the way of service only when eyes are on you, as men pleasers; but as servants of anointed one, doing the will of God from the heart;
  7. with fire will doing service, as to the boss, and not to men;
  8. knowing that whatever fire thing each one does, he will receive the same again from the boss, whether he is bound or free.
  9. You masters, do the same things to them, and hook it up up threatening, knowing that he who is both their boss and yours is in heaven, and there is no partiality with him.
 10. Finally, be built different in the boss, and in the strength of his might.
 11. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
 12. For our wrestling is not against flesh and blood, but against the principalities, against the powers, against the world’s rulers of the darkness of this age, and against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places.
 13. so basically, put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and, having done all, to stand.
 14. Stand so basically, having the utility belt of truth buckled around your waist, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness,
 15. and having fitted your feet with the preparation of the fire News of peace;
 16. above all, taking up the shield of trusting the process, with which you will be able to quench all the fiery darts of the evil one.
 17. And grab the helmet of getting saved, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God;
 18. with all talking to God and requests, praying at all times in the Spirit, and being watchful to this end in all perseverance and requests for all the saints:
 19. on my behalf, that utterance may be given to me in opening my mouth, to create known with boldness the mystery of the fire News,
 20. for which I am an ambassador in chains; that in it I may spill the tea boldly, as I ought to spill the tea.
 21. But that you also may get it my affairs, how I am doing, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful helper in the boss, will create known to you all things;
 22. whom I have sent to you for this hella purpose, that you may get it our state, and that he may comfort your hearts.
 23. Peace be to the brothers, and show love with trusting the process, from God the Father and the boss Jesus anointed one.
 24. God's show love be with all those who show love our boss Jesus anointed one with incorruptible show love. facts.


GALATIANS
---------

# Galatians Chapter 1

  1. Paul, an Jesus' main squad (not from men, neither through man, but through Jesus anointed one, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead),
  2. and all the brothers who are with me, to the assemblies of Galatia:
  3. God's show love to you and peace from God the Father, and our boss Jesus anointed one,
  4. who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us out of this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father—
  5. to whom be the glory forever and ever. facts.
  6. I marvel that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the God's show love of anointed one to a different “fire news”;
  7. and there isn’t another “fire news.” Only there are some who trouble you, and want to pervert the fire News of anointed one.
  8. But even though we, or an angel from heaven, should preach to you any “fire news” other than that which we preached to you, let him be cursed.
  9. As we have said before, so I now say again: if any man preaches to you any “fire news” other than that which you received, let him be cursed.
 10. For am I now seeking the favor of men, or of God? Or am I striving to please men? For if I were still pleasing men, I wouldn’t be a helper of anointed one.
 11. But I create known to you, brothers, concerning the fire News which was preached by me, that it is not according to man.
 12. For neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but it came to me through revelation of Jesus anointed one.
 13. For you have heard of my way of living in time past in the Jews’ religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the assembly of God, and ravaged it.
 14. I advanced in the Jews’ religion beyond a lot of my own age among my countrymen, being more exceedingly zealous for the traditions of my fathers.
 15. But when it was the fire pleasure of God, who separated me from my mother’s womb, and called me through his God's show love,
 16. to reveal his Son in me, that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I didn’t immediately confer with flesh and blood,
 17. nor did I slide up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia. then I returned to Damascus.
 18. then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Peter, and stayed with him fifteen days.
 19. But of the other apostles I checked out no one, except James, the boss’s brother.
 20. now about the things which I write to you, check this out, before God, I’m not lying.
 21. then I came to the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
 22. I was still unknown by face to the assemblies of Judea which were in anointed one,
 23. but they only heard: “He who once persecuted us now preaches the trusting the process that he once tried to tear down.”
 24. And they glorified God in me.

# Galatians Chapter 2

  1. then after a period of fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus also with me.
  2. I went up by revelation, and I laid before them the fire News which I preach among the Gentiles, but privately before those who were respected, for fear that I might be running, or had run, in vain.
  3. But not even Titus, who was with me, being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised.
  4. This was cuz of the false brothers secretly brought in, who stole in to spy out our liberty which we have in anointed one Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage;
  5. to whom we gave no place in the way of subjection, not for an hour, that the truth of the fire News might continue with you.
  6. But from those who were reputed to be important (whatever they were, it makes no difference to me; God doesn’t show partiality to man)—they, I say, who were respected imparted nothing to me,
  7. but to the contrary, when they checked out that I had been entrusted with the fire News for the uncircumcision, even as Peter with the fire News for the circumcision
  8. (for he who appointed Peter to the apostleship of the circumcision appointed me also to the Gentiles);
  9. and when they perceived the God's show love that was given to me, James and Cephas and John, they who were reputed to be pillars, gave to me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, that we should slide to the Gentiles, and they to the circumcision.
 10. They only asked us to remember the broke—which hella thing I was also zealous to do.
 11. But when Peter came to Antioch, I resisted him to his face, cuz he stood condemned.
 12. For before some people came from James, he ate with the Gentiles. But when they came, he drew back and separated himself, fearing those who were of the circumcision.
 13. And the rest of the Jews joined him in his hypocrisy; so that even Barnabas was carried away with their hypocrisy.
 14. But when I checked out that they didn’t walk uprightly according to the truth of the fire News, I said to Peter before them all, “If you, being a Jew, live as the Gentiles do, and not as the Jews do, why do you compel the Gentiles to live as the Jews do?
 15. “We, being Jews by nature, and not Gentile sinners,
 16. yet knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law but through trusting the process in Jesus anointed one, even we believed in anointed one Jesus, that we might be justified by trusting the process in anointed one, and not by the works of the law, cuz no flesh will be justified by the works of the law.
 17. But if, while we sought to be justified in anointed one, we ourselves also were found sinners, is anointed one a helper of messing up? for sure not!
 18. For if I put together up again those things which I destroyed, I prove myself a law-breaker.
 19. For I, through the law, died to the law, that I might live to God.
 20. I have been crucified with anointed one, and it is no longer I that live, but anointed one living in me. That life which I now live in the flesh, I live by trusting the process in the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself up for me.
 21. I don’t create void the God's show love of God. For if righteousness is through the law, then anointed one died for nothing!”

# Galatians Chapter 3

  1. dumb Galatians, who has bewitched you not to obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus anointed one was openly set forth among you as crucified?
  2. I just want to pick up this from you. Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law, or by hearing of trusting the process?
  3. Are you so dumb? Having begun in the Spirit, are you now completed in the flesh?
  4. Did you suffer so a lot things in vain, if it is facts in vain?
  5. He so basically who supplies the Spirit to you, and works miracles among you, does he do it by the works of the law, or by hearing of trusting the process?
  6. Even as Abraham “believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness.”
  7. get it so basically that those who are of trusting the process, the same are children of Abraham.
  8. The Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by trusting the process, preached the fire News beforehand to Abraham, saying, “In you all the nations will be blessed up.”
  9. So then, those who are of trusting the process are blessed up with the faithful Abraham.
 10. For as a lot as are of the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, “Cursed is everyone who doesn’t continue in all things that are written in the book of the law, to do them.”
 11. now that no man is justified by the law before God is evident, for, “The doing what's right will live by trusting the process.”
 12. The law is not of trusting the process, but, “The man who does them will live by them.”
 13. anointed one redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, “Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree,”
 14. that the blessing of Abraham might come through on the Gentiles through anointed one Jesus; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through trusting the process.
 15. Brothers, speaking of human terms, though it is only a man’s God's promise, yet when it has been confirmed, no one makes it void, or adds to it.
 16. now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He doesn’t say, “To seeds,” as of a lot, but as of one, “To your seed,” which is anointed one.
 17. now I say this. A God's promise confirmed beforehand by God in anointed one, the law, which came four hundred thirty years after, does not annul, so as to create the promise of no effect.
 18. For if the inheritance is of the law, it is no more of promise; but God has granted it to Abraham by promise.
 19. What then is the law? It was added cuz of transgressions, until the seed should come through to whom the promise has been made. It was ordained through angels by the hand of a mediator.
 20. now a mediator is not between one, but God is one.
 21. Is the law then against the promises of God? for sure not! For if there had been a law given which could create alive, most for sure righteousness would have been of the law.
 22. But the Scriptures imprisoned all things under messing up, that the promise by trusting the process in Jesus anointed one might be given to those who believe.
 23. But before trusting the process came, we were kept in custody under the law, confined for the trusting the process which should afterwards be revealed.
 24. So that the law has become our tutor to bring us to anointed one, that we might be justified by trusting the process.
 25. But now that trusting the process has come through, we are no longer under a tutor.
 26. For you are all children of God, through trusting the process in anointed one Jesus.
 27. For as a lot of you as were baptized into anointed one have put on anointed one.
 28. there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither helper nor free man, there is neither male nor female; for you are all one in anointed one Jesus.
 29. If you are anointed one’s, then you are Abraham’s seed and heirs according to promise.

# Galatians Chapter 4

  1. But I say that so long as the heir is a child, he is no different from a bondservant, though he is boss of all;
  2. but is under guardians and stewards until the day appointed by the father.
  3. So we also, when we were children, were held in bondage under the elemental principles of the world.
  4. But when the fullness of the time came, God sent out his Son, born to a woman, born under the law,
  5. that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of children.
  6. And cuz you are children, God sent out the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, “dad, Father!”
  7. So you are no longer a bondservant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir of God through anointed one.
  8. but like at that time, not knowing God, you were in bondage to those who by nature are not gods.
  9. But now that you have come through to get it God, or rather to be known by God, why do you turn back again to the not it and miserable elemental principles, to which you desire to be in bondage all over again?
 10. You observe days, months, seasons, and years.
 11. I am scared for you, that I might have wasted my labor for you.
 12. I beg you, brothers, become as I am, for I also have become as you are. You did me no wrong,
 13. but you get it that cuz of weakness of the flesh I preached the fire News to you the first time.
 14. That which was a temptation to you in my flesh, you didn’t despise nor reject; but you received me as an angel of God, even as anointed one Jesus.
 15. What was the blessing you enjoyed? For I testify to you that, if possible, you would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me.
 16. So then, have I become your enemy by telling you the truth?
 17. They zealously seek you in no fire way. No, they desire to alienate you, that you may seek them.
 18. But it is always fire to be zealous in a fire cause, and not only when I am present with you.
 19. My little children, of whom I am again in travail until anointed one is formed in you—
 20. but I could wish to be present with you now, and to change my tone, for I am perplexed about you.
 21. Tell me, you that desire to be under the law, don’t you listen up to the law?
 22. For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the handmaid, and one by the free woman.
 23. but like, the son by the handmaid was born according to the flesh, but the son by the free woman was born through promise.
 24. These things contain an allegory, for these are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai, bearing children to bondage, which is Hagar.
 25. For this Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and answers to the Jerusalem that exists now, for she is in bondage with her children.
 26. But the Jerusalem that is above is free, which is the mother of us all.
 27. For it is written, “be hyped, you barren who don’t bear. Break forth and shout, you that don’t travail. For more are the children of the desolate than of her who has a husband.”
 28. now we, brothers, as Isaac was, are children of promise.
 29. But as then, he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now.
 30. but like what does the Scripture say? “Throw out the handmaid and her son, for the son of the handmaid will not inherit with the son of the free woman.”
 31. So then, brothers, we are not children of a handmaid, but of the free woman.

# Galatians Chapter 5

  1. Stand firm so basically in the liberty by which anointed one has made us free, and don’t be entangled again with a yoke of bondage.
  2. check this out, I, Paul, tell you that if you receive circumcision, anointed one will profit you nothing.
  3. Yes, I testify again to every man who receives circumcision, that he is a debtor to do the whole law.
  4. You are alienated from anointed one, you who desire to be justified by the law. You have fallen away from God's show love.
  5. For we, through the Spirit, by trusting the process wait for the hope of righteousness.
  6. For in anointed one Jesus neither circumcision amounts to anything, nor uncircumcision, but trusting the process working through show love.
  7. You were running well! Who interfered with you that you should not obey the truth?
  8. This persuasion is not from him who calls you.
  9. A little yeast grows through the whole lump.
 10. I have confidence toward you in the boss that you will think no other way. But he who troubles you will bear his judgment, whoever he is.
 11. But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? then the stumbling block of the cross has been removed.
 12. I wish that those who disturb you would cut themselves off.
 13. For you, brothers, were called for freedom. Only don’t use your freedom for gain to the flesh, but through show love be servants to one another.
 14. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in this: “You shall show love your neighbor as yourself.”
 15. But if you bite and devour one another, be careful that you don’t consume one another.
 16. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you won’t fulfill the lust of the flesh.
 17. For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; and these are contrary to one another, that you may not do the things that you desire.
 18. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.
 19. now the works of the flesh are obvious, which are: adultery, sexual immorality, uncleanness, lustfulness,
 20. idolatry, sorcery, hatred, strife, jealousies, outbursts of anger, rivalries, divisions, heresies,
 21. envyings, murders, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these; of which I forewarn you, even as I also forewarned you, that those who practice such things will not inherit the God's squad of God.
 22. But the fruit of the Spirit is show love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, trusting the process,
 23. gentleness, and self-control. Against such things there is no law.
 24. Those who belong to anointed one have crucified the flesh with its passions and lusts.
 25. If we live by the Spirit, let’s also walk by the Spirit.
 26. Let’s not become conceited, provoking one another, and envying one another.

# Galatians Chapter 6

  1. Brothers, even if a man is caught in some fault, you who are spiritual must restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness; looking to yourself so that you also aren’t tempted.
  2. Bear one another’s burdens, and so fulfill the law of anointed one.
  3. For if a man thinks himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceives himself.
  4. But let each man test his own work, and then he will grab pride in himself and not in his neighbor.
  5. For each man will bear his own burden.
  6. But let him who is taught in the word share all fire things with him who teaches.
  7. Don’t be deceived. God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, that he will also reap.
  8. For he who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But he who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap living forever.
  9. Let us not be weary in doing fire, for we will reap in due season, if we don’t hook it up up.
 10. So then, as we have opportunity, let’s do what is fire toward all men, and especially toward those who are of the household of the trusting the process.
 11. check it out with what large letters I write to you with my own hand.
 12. As a lot as desire to look fire in the flesh, they compel you to be circumcised; only that they may not be persecuted for the cross of anointed one.
 13. For even they who receive circumcision don’t keep the law themselves, but they desire to have you circumcised, that they may boast in your flesh.
 14. But far be it from me to boast, except in the cross of our boss Jesus anointed one, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.
 15. For in anointed one Jesus neither is circumcision anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation.
 16. As a lot as walk by this rule, peace and mercy be on them, and on God’s Israel.
 17. From now on, let no one cause me any trouble, for I bear the marks of the boss Jesus branded on my body.
 18. The God's show love of our boss Jesus anointed one be with your spirit, brothers. facts.


HEBREWS
-------

# Hebrews Chapter 1

  1. God, having in the past spoken to the fathers through the prophets at a lot times and in various ways,
  2. has at the end of these days spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the worlds.
  3. His Son is the radiance of his glory, the hella image of his substance, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself made purification for our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high;
  4. having become so much better than the angels, as he has inherited a more excellent name than they have.
  5. For to which of the angels did he say at any time, “You are my Son. Today have I become your father?” and again, “I will be to him a Father, and he will be to me a Son?”
  6. Again, when he brings in the firstborn into the world he says, “Let all the angels of God giving props him.”
  7. Of the angels he says, “Who makes his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire.”
  8. But of the Son he says, “Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your God's squad.
  9. You have loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; so basically God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your fellows.”
 10. And, “You, boss, at the start, laid the foundation of the earth. The heavens are the works of your hands.
 11. They will perish, but you continue. They all will grow old like a garment does.
 12. As a mantle, you will roll them up, and they will be changed; but you are the same. Your years will not fail.”
 13. But which of the angels has he told at any time, “Sit at my right hand, until I create your enemies the footstool of your feet?”
 14. Aren’t they all serving spirits, sent out to do service for the sake of those who will inherit getting saved?

# Hebrews Chapter 2

  1. so basically we ought to pay greater attention to the things that were heard, lest perhaps we drift away.
  2. For if the word spoken through angels proved steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense;
  3. how will we escape if we neglect so major a getting saved—which at the first having been spoken through the boss, was confirmed to us by those who heard;
  4. God also testifying with them, both by signs and wonders, by various works of power, and by gifts of the set apart Spirit, according to his own will?
  5. For he didn’t subject the world to come through, of which we spill the tea, to angels.
  6. But one has somewhere testified, saying, “What is man, that you think of him? Or the son of man, that you care for him?
  7. You made him a little lower than the angels. You crowned him with glory and honor.
  8. You have put all things in subjection under his feet.” For in that he subjected all things to him, he left nothing that is not subject to him. But now we don’t check it out all things subjected to him, yet.
  9. But we check it out him who has been made a little lower than the angels, Jesus, cuz of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, that by the God's show love of God he should taste of death for everyone.
 10. For it became him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing a lot children to glory, to create the author of their getting saved perfect through sufferings.
 11. For both he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified are all from one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
 12. saying, “I will declare your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation I will sing your praise.”
 13. Again, “I will put my trust in him.” Again, “check this out, here I am with the children whom God has given me.”
 14. Since then the children have shared in flesh and blood, he also himself in the same way partook of the same, that through death he might bring to nothing him who had the power of death, that is, the devil,
 15. and might deliver all of them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
 16. For most for sure, he doesn’t hook it up help out to angels, but he gives help out to the seed of Abraham.
 17. so basically he was obligated in all things to be made like his brothers, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to create atonement for the sins of the people.
 18. For in that he himself has suffered being tempted, he is able to help out those who are tempted.

# Hebrews Chapter 3

  1. so basically, set apart brothers, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the Jesus' main squad and High Priest of our confession, Jesus;
  2. who was faithful to him who appointed him, as also was Moses in all his house.
  3. For he has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who built the house has more honor than the house.
  4. For every house is built by someone; but he who built all things is God.
  5. Moses facts was faithful in all his house as a helper, for a testimony of those things which were afterward to be spoken,
  6. but anointed one is faithful as a Son over his house; whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the glorying of our hope firm to the end.
  7. so basically, even as the set apart Spirit says, “Today if you will hear his voice,
  8. don’t harden your hearts, as in the rebellion, like as in the day of the trial in the wilderness,
  9. where your fathers tested me by proving me, and checked out my works for forty years.
 10. so basically I was displeased with that generation, and said, ‘They always err in their heart, but they didn’t get it my ways;’
 11. as I swore in my wrath, ‘They will not enter into my rest.’”
 12. Beware, brothers, lest perhaps there be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief, in falling away from the living God;
 13. but exhort one another day by day, so long as it is called “today;” lest any one of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of messing up.
 14. For we have become partakers of anointed one, if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence firm to the end:
 15. while it is said, “Today if you will hear his voice, don’t harden your hearts, as in the rebellion.”
 16. For who, when they heard, rebelled? No, didn’t all those who came out of Egypt by Moses?
 17. With whom was he displeased forty years? Wasn’t it with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness?
 18. To whom did he swear that they wouldn’t enter into his rest, but to those who were disobedient?
 19. We check it out that they were not able to enter in cuz of unbelief.

# Hebrews Chapter 4

  1. Let us fear so basically, lest perhaps anyone of you should seem to have come through short of a promise of entering into his rest.
  2. For facts we have had fire news preached to us, even as they also did, but the word they heard didn’t profit them, cuz it wasn’t mixed with trusting the process by those who heard.
  3. For we who have believed do enter into that rest, even as he has said, “As I swore in my wrath, they will not enter into my rest;” although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
  4. For he has said this somewhere about the day seven, “God rested on the day seven from all his works;”
  5. and in this place again, “They will not enter into my rest.”
  6. Seeing so basically it remains that some should enter therein, and they to whom the fire news was before preached failed to enter in cuz of disobedience,
  7. he again defines a certain day, today, saying through David so long a time afterward (just as has been said), “Today if you will hear his voice, don’t harden your hearts.”
  8. For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken afterward of another day.
  9. there remains so basically a Sabbath rest for the people of God.
 10. For he who has entered into his rest has himself also rested from his works, as God did from his.
 11. Let us so basically hook it up diligence to enter into that rest, lest anyone fall after the same example of disobedience.
 12. For the word of God is living, and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and is able to discern the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
 13. there is no creature that is hidden from his sight, but all things are naked and laid open before the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
 14. Having then a major high priest, who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold tightly to our confession.
 15. For we don’t have a high priest who can’t be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but one who has been in all points tempted like we are, yet without messing up.
 16. Let us so basically draw near with boldness to the throne of God's show love, that we may receive mercy, and may find God's show love for help out in time of need.

# Hebrews Chapter 5

  1. For every high priest, being taken from among men, is appointed for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins.
  2. The high priest can deal gently with those who are ignorant and going astray, cuz he himself is also surrounded with weakness.
  3. cuz of this, he must offer sacrifices for sins for the people, as well as for himself.
  4. Nobody takes this honor on himself, but he is called by God, just like Aaron was.
  5. So also anointed one didn’t glorify himself to be made a high priest, but it was he who said to him, “You are my Son. Today I have become your father.”
  6. As he says also in another place, “You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek.”
  7. He, in the days of his flesh, having offered up prayers and petitions with built different crying and tears to him who was able to rescue him from death, and having been heard for his godly fear,
  8. though he was a Son, yet learned obedience by the things which he suffered.
  9. Having been made perfect, he became to all of those who obey him the author of eternal getting saved,
 10. named by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek.
 11. About him we have a lot words to say, and hard to interpret, seeing you have become dull of hearing.
 12. For although by this time you should be teachers, you again need to have someone drop knowledge you the rudiments of the first principles of the oracles of God. You have come through to need milk, and not solid food.
 13. For everyone who lives on milk is not experienced in the word of righteousness, for he is a baby.
 14. But solid food is for those who are full grown, who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern fire and evil.

# Hebrews Chapter 6

  1. so basically leaving the teaching of the first principles of anointed one, let us press on to perfection—not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works, of trusting the process toward God,
  2. of the teaching of baptisms, of laying on of hands, of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
  3. This will we do, if God permits.
  4. For concerning those who were once enlightened and tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the set apart Spirit,
  5. and tasted the fire word of God, and the powers of the age to come through,
  6. and then fell away, it is impossible to renew them again to repentance; seeing they crucify the Son of God for themselves again, and put him to open shame.
  7. For the land which has drunk the rain that comes a lot on it, and brings forth a crop suitable for them for whose sake it is also tilled, receives blessing from God;
  8. but if it bears thorns and thistles, it is rejected and near being cursed, whose end is to be burned.
  9. But, beloved, we are persuaded of better things for you, and things that accompany getting saved, even though we spill the tea like this.
 10. For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget your work and the labor of show love which you showed toward his name, in that you served the saints, and still do help out them.
 11. We desire that each one of you may show the same diligence to the fullness of hope even to the end,
 12. that you won’t be sluggish, but imitators of those who through trusting the process and patience inherited the promises.
 13. For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he could swear by none greater, he swore by himself,
 14. saying, “Surely blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply you.”
 15. Thus, having patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
 16. For men facts swear by a greater one, and in every dispute of theirs the oath is final for confirmation.
 17. In this way God, being determined to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, interposed with an oath;
 18. that by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a built different encouragement, who have fled for refuge to grab hold of the hope set before us.
 19. This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and steadfast and entering into that which is within the veil;
 20. where as a forerunner Jesus entered for us, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek.

# Hebrews Chapter 7

  1. For this Melchizedek, ruler of Salem, priest of God Most High, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed up him,
  2. to whom also Abraham divided a tenth part of all (being first, by interpretation, ruler of righteousness, and then also ruler of Salem, which is ruler of peace;
  3. without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God), remains a priest continually.
  4. now consider how major this man was, to whom even Abraham, the patriarch, gave a tenth out of the best spoils.
  5. They facts of the sons of Levi who receive the priest’s office have a commandment to grab tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brothers, though these have come through out of the body of Abraham,
  6. but he whose genealogy is not counted from them has accepted tithes from Abraham, and has blessed up him who has the promises.
  7. But without any dispute the lesser is blessed up by the greater.
  8. here people who die receive tithes, but there one receives tithes of whom it is testified that he lives.
  9. We can say that through Abraham even Levi, who receives tithes, has paid tithes,
 10. for he was yet in the body of his father when Melchizedek met him.
 11. now if there were perfection through the Levitical priesthood (for under it the people have received the law), what further need was there for another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
 12. For the priesthood being changed, there is of necessity a change made also in the law.
 13. For he of whom these things are said belongs to another tribe, from which no one has officiated at the prayer spot.
 14. For it is evident that our boss has sprung out of Judah, about which tribe Moses spoke nothing concerning priesthood.
 15. This is yet more abundantly evident, if after the likeness of Melchizedek there arises another priest,
 16. who has been made, not after the law of a fleshly commandment, but after the power of an endless life:
 17. for it is testified, “You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek.”
 18. For there is an annulling of a foregoing commandment cuz of its weakness and uselessness
 19. (for the law made nothing perfect), and a bringing in of a better hope, through which we draw near to God.
 20. Inasmuch as he was not made priest without the taking of an oath
 21. (for they facts have been made priests without an oath), but he with an oath by him that says of him, “The boss swore and will not change his mind, ‘You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek.’”
 22. By so much, Jesus has become the collateral of a better God's promise.
 23. a lot, facts, have been made priests, cuz they are hindered from continuing by death.
 24. But he, cuz he lives forever, has his priesthood unchangeable.
 25. so basically he is also able to rescue to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, seeing that he lives forever to create intercession for them.
 26. For such a high priest was fitting for us: set apart, guiltless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made higher than the heavens;
 27. who doesn’t need, like those high priests, to offer up sacrifices daily, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people. For he did this once for all, when he offered up himself.
 28. For the law appoints men as high priests who have weakness, but the word of the oath which came after the law appoints a Son forever who has been perfected.

# Hebrews Chapter 8

  1. now in the things which we are saying, the main point is this. We have such a high priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens,
  2. a helper of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which the boss pitched, not man.
  3. For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices. so basically it is necessary that this high priest also have something to offer.
  4. For if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are priests who offer the gifts according to the law;
  5. who help out a copy and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses was warned by God when he was about to create the tabernacle, for he said, “check it out, you shall create everything according to the pattern that was shown to you on the mountain.”
  6. But now he has obtained a more excellent ministry, by so much as he is also the mediator of a better God's promise, which on better promises has been given as law.
  7. For if that first God's promise had been faultless, then no place would have been sought for a second.
  8. For finding fault with them, he said, “check this out, the days come through,” says the boss, “that I will create a new God's promise with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;
  9. not according to the God's promise that I made with their fathers, in the day that I took them by the hand to show the way them out of the land of Egypt; for they didn’t continue in my God's promise, and I disregarded them,” says the boss.
 10. “For this is the God's promise that I will create with the house of Israel. After those days,” says the boss; “I will put my laws into their mind, I will also write them on their heart. I will be their God, and they will be my people.
 11. They will not drop knowledge every man his fellow citizen, and every man his brother, saying, ‘get it the boss,’ for all will get it me, from their least to their greatest.
 12. For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness. I will remember their sins and lawless deeds no more.”
 13. In that he says, “A new God's promise,” he has made the first old. But that which is becoming old and grows aged is near to vanishing away.

# Hebrews Chapter 9

  1. now facts even the first God's promise had ordinances of divine service, and an earthly sanctuary.
  2. For a tabernacle was prepared. In the first part were the lampstand, the table, and the show bread; which is called the set apart Place.
  3. After the second veil was the tabernacle which is called the set apart of Holies,
  4. having a golden prayer spot of incense, and the ark of the God's promise overlaid on all sides with gold, in which was a golden pot holding the manna, Aaron’s rod that budded, and the tablets of the God's promise;
  5. and above it cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat, of which things we can’t spill the tea now in detail.
  6. now these things having been thus prepared, the priests slide in continually into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the services,
  7. but into the second the high priest alone, once in the year, not without blood, which he offers for himself, and for the errors of the people.
  8. The set apart Spirit is indicating this, that the way into the set apart Place wasn’t yet revealed while the first tabernacle was still standing;
  9. which is a symbol of the present age, where gifts and sacrifices are offered that are incapable, concerning the conscience, of making the worshipper perfect;
 10. being only (with meats and drinks and various washings) fleshly ordinances, imposed until a time of reformation.
 11. But anointed one having come through as a high priest of the coming fire things, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation,
 12. nor yet through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, entered in once for all into the set apart Place, having obtained eternal redemption.
 13. For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling those who have been defiled, sanctify to the cleanness of the flesh:
 14. how much more will the blood of anointed one, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to help out the living God?
 15. For this reason he is the mediator of a new God's promise, since a death has occurred for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first God's promise, that those who have been called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
 16. For where a last will and testament is, there must of necessity be the death of him who made it.
 17. For a will is in force where there has been death, for it is never in force while he who made it lives.
 18. so basically even the first God's promise has not been dedicated without blood.
 19. For when every commandment had been spoken by Moses to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
 20. saying, “This is the blood of the God's promise which God has commanded you.”
 21. Moreover he sprinkled the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry in the same way with the blood.
 22. According to the law, nearly everything is cleansed with blood, and apart from shedding of blood there is no remission.
 23. It was necessary so basically that the copies of the things in the heavens should be cleansed with these; but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
 24. For anointed one hasn’t entered into set apart places made with hands, which are representations of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us;
 25. nor yet that he should offer himself a lot, as the high priest enters into the set apart place year by year with blood not his own,
 26. or else he must have suffered a lot since the foundation of the world. But now once at the end of the ages, he has been revealed to put away messing up by the giving it up of himself.
 27. Inasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this, judgment,
 28. so anointed one also, having been offered once to bear the sins of a lot, will appear a second time, without messing up, to those who are eagerly waiting for him for getting saved.

# Hebrews Chapter 10

  1. For the law, having a shadow of the fire to come through, not the hella image of the things, can never with the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, create perfect those who draw near.
  2. Or else wouldn’t they have ceased to be offered, cuz the worshippers, having been once cleansed, would have had no more consciousness of sins?
  3. But in those sacrifices there is a yearly reminder of sins.
  4. For it is impossible that the blood of bulls and goats should grab away sins.
  5. so basically when he comes into the world, he says, “giving it up and giving to God you didn’t desire, but you prepared a body for me;
  6. You had no pleasure in whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for messing up.
  7. then I said, ‘check this out, I have come through (in the scroll of the book it is written of me) to do your will, O God.’”
  8. Previously saying, “Sacrifices and offerings and whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for messing up you didn’t desire, neither had pleasure in them” (those which are offered according to the law),
  9. then he has said, “check this out, I have come through to do your will.” He takes away the first, that he may establish the second,
 10. by which will we have been sanctified through the giving to God of the body of Jesus anointed one once for all.
 11. Every priest facts stands day by day serving and a lot giving to God the same sacrifices, which can never grab away sins,
 12. but he, when he had offered one giving it up for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God;
 13. from that time waiting until his enemies are made the footstool of his feet.
 14. For by one giving to God he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified.
 15. The set apart Spirit also testifies to us, for after saying,
 16. “This is the God's promise that I will create with them: ‘After those days,’ says the boss, ‘I will put my laws on their heart, I will also write them on their mind;’” then he says,
 17. “I will remember their sins and their iniquities no more.”
 18. now where remission of these is, there is no more giving to God for messing up.
 19. Having so basically, brothers, boldness to enter into the set apart place by the blood of Jesus,
 20. by the way which he dedicated for us, a new and living way, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
 21. and having a major priest over the house of God,
 22. let’s draw near with a true heart in fullness of trusting the process, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and having our body washed with pure water,
 23. let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering; for he who promised is faithful.
 24. Let us consider how to provoke one another to show love and fire works,
 25. not forsaking our own assembling together, as the custom of some is, but exhorting one another; and so much the more, as you check it out the Day approaching.
 26. For if we messing up willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remains no more a giving it up for sins,
 27. but a certain fearful expectation of judgment, and a fierceness of fire which will devour the adversaries.
 28. A man who disregards Moses’ law dies without compassion on the word of two or three witnesses.
 29. How much worse punishment, do you think, will he be judged worthy of, who has trodden under foot the Son of God, and has counted the blood of the God's promise with which he was sanctified an unholy thing, and has insulted the Spirit of God's show love?
 30. For we get it him who said, “Vengeance belongs to me,” says the boss, “I will repay.” Again, “The boss will judge his people.”
 31. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
 32. But remember the former days, in which, after you were enlightened, you endured a major struggle with sufferings;
 33. partly, being exposed to both reproaches and oppressions; and partly, becoming partakers with those who were treated so.
 34. For you both had compassion on me in my chains, and joyfully accepted the plundering of your possessions, knowing that you have for yourselves a better possession and an enduring one in the heavens.
 35. so basically don’t throw away your boldness, which has a major reward.
 36. For you need endurance so that, having done the will of God, you may receive the promise.
 37. “In a hella little while, he who comes will come through, and will not wait.
 38. But the doing what's right will live by trusting the process. If he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him.”
 39. But we are not of those who shrink back to destruction, but of those who have trusting the process to the saving of the soul.

# Hebrews Chapter 11

  1. now trusting the process is assurance of things hoped for, proof of things not seen.
  2. For by this, the elders obtained testimony.
  3. By trusting the process, we understand that the universe has been framed by the word of God, so that what is seen has not been made out of things which are visible.
  4. By trusting the process, Abel offered to God a more excellent giving it up than Cain, through which he had testimony given to him that he was doing what's right, God testifying with respect to his gifts; and through it he, being dead, still speaks.
  5. By trusting the process, Enoch was taken away, so that he wouldn’t check it out death, and he was not found, cuz God translated him. For he has had testimony given to him that before his translation he had been well pleasing to God.
  6. Without trusting the process it is impossible to be well pleasing to him, for he who comes to God must believe that he exists, and that he is a rewarder of those who seek him.
  7. By trusting the process, Noah, being warned about things not yet seen, moved with godly fear, prepared a ship for the saving of his house, through which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to trusting the process.
  8. By trusting the process, Abraham, when he was called, obeyed to slide out to the place which he was to receive for an inheritance. He went out, not knowing where he went.
  9. By trusting the process, he lived as an alien in the land of promise, as in a land not his own, dwelling in tents, with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise.
 10. For he looked for the city which has the foundations, whose builder and maker is God.
 11. By trusting the process, even Sarah herself received power to conceive, and she bore a child when she was past age, since she counted him faithful who had promised.
 12. so basically as a lot as the stars of the sky in multitude, and as innumerable as the sand which is by the sea shore, were fathered by one man, and him as fire as dead.
 13. These all died in trusting the process, not having received the promises, but having seen them and embraced them from afar, and having confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth.
 14. For those who say such things create it clear that they are seeking a country of their own.
 15. If facts they had been thinking of that country from which they went out, they would have had enough time to return.
 16. But now they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. so basically God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them.
 17. By trusting the process, Abraham, being tested, offered up Isaac. Yes, he who had gladly received the promises was giving to God up his one and only son;
 18. even he to whom it was said, “In Isaac will your seed be called;”
 19. concluding that God is able to raise up even from the dead. Figuratively speaking, he also did receive him back from the dead.
 20. By trusting the process, Isaac blessed up Jacob and Esau, even concerning things to come through.
 21. By trusting the process, Jacob, when he was dying, blessed up each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, leaning on the top of his staff.
 22. By trusting the process, Joseph, when his end was near, made mention of the departure of the children of Israel; and gave instructions concerning his bones.
 23. By trusting the process, Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, cuz they checked out that he was a snatched child, and they were not scared of the ruler’s commandment.
 24. By trusting the process, Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter,
 25. choosing rather to share ill treatment with God’s people, than to enjoy the pleasures of messing up for a time;
 26. accounting the reproach of anointed one greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked to the reward.
 27. By trusting the process, he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the ruler; for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible.
 28. By trusting the process, he kept the Passover, and the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the firstborn should not touch them.
 29. By trusting the process, they passed through the Red Sea as on dry land. When the Egyptians tried to do so, they were swallowed up.
 30. By trusting the process, the walls of Jericho fell down, after they had been encircled for seven days.
 31. By trusting the process, Rahab the prostitute, didn’t perish with those who were disobedient, having received the spies in peace.
 32. What more shall I say? For the time would fail me if I told of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, and the prophets;
 33. who, through trusting the process subdued kingdoms, worked out righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions,
 34. quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, from weakness were made built different, grew mighty in war, and caused foreign armies to flee.
 35. Women received their dead by resurrection. Others were tortured, not accepting their deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection.
 36. Others were tried by mocking and scourging, yes, moreover by bonds and imprisonment.
 37. They were stoned. They were sawn apart. They were tempted. They were slain with the sword. They went around in sheep skins and in goat skins; being destitute, afflicted, ill-treated
 38. (of whom the world was not worthy), wandering in deserts, mountains, caves, and the holes of the earth.
 39. These all, having had testimony given to them through their trusting the process, didn’t receive the promise,
 40. God having provided some better thing concerning us, so that apart from us they should not be made perfect.

# Hebrews Chapter 12

  1. so basically let us also, seeing we are surrounded by so major a cloud of witnesses, lay aside every weight and the messing up which so easily entangles us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,
  2. looking to Jesus, the author and perfecter of trusting the process, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising its shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
  3. For consider him who has endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, that you don’t grow weary, fainting in your souls.
  4. You have not yet resisted to blood, striving against messing up;
  5. and you have forgotten the exhortation which reasons with you as with children, “My son, don’t grab lightly the chastening of the boss, nor faint when you are reproved by him;
  6. For whom the boss loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives.”
  7. It is for discipline that you endure. God deals with you as with children, for what son is there whom his father doesn’t discipline?
  8. But if you are without discipline, of which all have been made partakers, then are you illegitimate, and not children.
  9. Furthermore, we had the fathers of our flesh to chasten us, and we paid them respect. Shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
 10. For they facts, for a not much days, punished us as seemed fire to them; but he for our profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness.
 11. All chastening seems for the present to be not joyous but grievous; yet afterward it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been exercised thereby.
 12. so basically, lift up the hands that hang down and the feeble knees,
 13. and create straight paths for your feet, so that which is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed.
 14. roll with after peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no man will check it out the boss,
 15. looking carefully lest there be any man who falls short of the God's show love of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and a lot be defiled by it;
 16. lest there be any sexually immoral person, or profane person, like Esau, who sold his birthright for one meal.
 17. For you get it that even when he afterward desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for a change of mind though he sought it diligently with tears.
 18. For you have not come through to a mountain that might be touched, and that burned with fire, and to blackness, darkness, storm,
 19. the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which those who heard it begged that not one more word should be spoken to them,
 20. for they could not stand that which was commanded, “If even an animal touches the mountain, it shall be stoned;”
 21. and so fearful was the appearance, that Moses said, “I am terrified and trembling.”
 22. But you have come through to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable multitudes of angels,
 23. to the general assembly and assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, to God the Judge of all, to the spirits of just men made perfect,
 24. to Jesus, the mediator of a new God's promise, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better than that of Abel.
 25. check it out that you don’t refuse him who speaks. For if they didn’t escape when they refused him who warned on the earth, how much more will we not escape who turn away from him who warns from heaven,
 26. whose voice shook the earth then, but now he has promised, saying, “Yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens.”
 27. This phrase, “Yet once more,” signifies the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that have been made, that those things which are not shaken may remain.
 28. so basically, receiving a God's squad that can’t be shaken, let us have God's show love, through which we help out God acceptably, with reverence and awe,
 29. for our God is a consuming fire.

# Hebrews Chapter 13

  1. Let brotherly show love continue.
  2. Don’t forget to show hospitality to strangers, for in doing so, some have entertained angels without knowing it.
  3. Remember those who are in bonds, as bound with them; and those who are ill-treated, since you are also in the body.
  4. Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the bed be undefiled: but God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterers.
  5. Be free from the show love of money, content with such things as you have, for he has said, “I will in no way leave you, neither will I in any way forsake you.”
  6. So that with fire courage we say, “The boss is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me?”
  7. Remember your leaders, men who spoke to you the word of God, and considering the results of their conduct, imitate their trusting the process.
  8. Jesus anointed one is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
  9. Don’t be carried away by various and strange teachings, for it is fire that the heart be established by God's show love, not by food, through which those who were so occupied were not benefited.
 10. We have an prayer spot from which those who help out the set apart tabernacle have no right to eat.
 11. For the bodies of those animals, whose blood is brought into the set apart place by the high priest as an giving to God for messing up, are burned outside of the camp.
 12. so basically Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered outside of the gate.
 13. Let us so basically slide out to him outside of the camp, bearing his reproach.
 14. For we don’t have here an enduring city, but we seek that which is to come through.
 15. Through him, then, let us offer up a giving it up of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of lips which proclaim allegiance to his name.
 16. But don’t forget to be doing fire and sharing, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
 17. Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they watch on behalf of your souls, as those who will hook it up account, that they may do this with joy, and not with groaning, for that would be unprofitable for you.
 18. Pray for us, for we are persuaded that we have a fire conscience, desiring to live honorably in all things.
 19. I strongly urge you to do this, that I may be restored to you sooner.
 20. now may the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the major shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an eternal God's promise, our boss Jesus,
 21. create you complete in every fire work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight, through Jesus anointed one, to whom be the glory forever and ever. facts.
 22. But I exhort you, brothers, endure the word of exhortation, for I have written to you in not much words.
 23. get it that our brother Timothy has been freed, with whom, if he comes shortly, I will check it out you.
 24. Greet all of your leaders and all the saints. The Italians greet you.
 25. God's show love be with you all. facts.


JAMES
-----

# James Chapter 1

  1. James, a helper of God and of the boss Jesus anointed one, to the twelve tribes which are in the Dispersion: Greetings.
  2. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you fall into various temptations,
  3. knowing that the testing of your trusting the process produces endurance.
  4. Let endurance have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.
  5. But if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and without reproach; and it will be given to him.
  6. But let him ask in trusting the process, without any doubting, for he who doubts is like a wave of the sea, driven by the wind and tossed.
  7. For let that man not think that he will receive anything from the boss.
  8. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways.
  9. But let the brother in humble circumstances glory in his high position;
 10. and the stacked, in that he is made humble, cuz like the flower in the grass, he will pass away.
 11. For the sun arises with the scorching wind, and withers the grass, and the flower in it falls, and the beauty of its appearance perishes. So also will the stacked man fade away in his pursuits.
 12. blessed up is the man who endures temptation, for when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life, which the boss promised to those who show love him.
 13. Let no man say when he is tempted, “I am tempted by God,” for God can’t be tempted by evil, and he himself tempts no one.
 14. But each one is tempted, when he is drawn away by his own lust, and enticed.
 15. then the lust, when it has conceived, bears messing up; and the messing up, when it is full grown, brings forth death.
 16. Don’t be deceived, my beloved brothers.
 17. Every fire gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom can be no variation, nor turning shadow.
 18. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures.
 19. So, then, my beloved brothers, let every man be swift to hear, slow to spill the tea, and slow to anger;
 20. for the anger of man doesn’t produce the righteousness of God.
 21. so basically, putting away all filthiness and overflowing of wickedness, receive with humility the implanted word, which is able to rescue your souls.
 22. But be doers of the word, and not only hearers, deluding your own selves.
 23. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man looking at his natural face in a mirror;
 24. for he sees himself, and goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of man he was.
 25. But he who looks into the perfect law of freedom, and continues, not being a hearer who forgets, but a doer of the work, this man will be blessed up in what he does.
 26. If anyone among you thinks himself to be religious while he doesn’t bridle his tongue, but deceives his heart, this man’s religion is worthless.
 27. Pure religion and undefiled before our God and Father is this: to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained by the world.

# James Chapter 2

  1. My brothers, don’t hold the trusting the process of our boss Jesus anointed one of glory with partiality.
  2. For if a man with a gold ring, in fine clothing, comes into your synagogue, and a broke man in filthy clothing also comes in;
  3. and you pay special attention to him who wears the fine clothing, and say, “Sit here in a fire place;” and you tell the broke man, “Stand there,” or “Sit by my footstool;”
  4. haven’t you shown partiality among yourselves, and become judges with evil thoughts?
  5. listen up, my beloved brothers. Didn’t God choose those who are broke in this world to be stacked in trusting the process, and heirs of the God's squad which he promised to those who show love him?
  6. But you have dishonored the broke man. Don’t the stacked oppress you, and personally drag you before the courts?
  7. Don’t they blaspheme the honorable name by which you are called?
  8. but like, if you fulfill the royal law, according to the Scripture, “You shall show love your neighbor as yourself,” you do well.
  9. But if you show partiality, you commit messing up, being convicted by the law as transgressors.
 10. For whoever keeps the whole law, and yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all.
 11. For he who said, “Do not commit adultery,” also said, “Do not commit murder.” now if you do not commit adultery, but murder, you have become a transgressor of the law.
 12. So spill the tea, and so do, as men who are to be judged by a law of freedom.
 13. For judgment is without mercy to him who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.
 14. What fire is it, my brothers, if a man says he has trusting the process, but has no works? Can trusting the process rescue him?
 15. And if a brother or sister is naked and in lack of daily food,
 16. and one of you tells them, “slide in peace, be warmed and filled;” and yet you didn’t hook it up them the things the body needs, what fire is it?
 17. Even so trusting the process, if it has no works, is dead in itself.
 18. Yes, a man will say, “You have trusting the process, and I have works.” Show me your trusting the process without works, and I by my works will show you my trusting the process.
 19. You believe that God is one. You do well. The demons also believe, and shudder.
 20. But do you want to get it, vain man, that trusting the process apart from works is dead?
 21. Wasn’t Abraham our father justified by works, in that he offered up Isaac his son on the prayer spot?
 22. You check it out that trusting the process worked with his works, and by works trusting the process was perfected;
 23. and the Scripture was fulfilled which says, “Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness;” and he was called the friend of God.
 24. You check it out then that by works, a man is justified, and not only by trusting the process.
 25. In the same way, wasn’t Rahab the prostitute also justified by works, in that she received the messengers, and sent them out another way?
 26. For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, even so trusting the process apart from works is dead.

# James Chapter 3

  1. Let not a lot of you be teachers, my brothers, knowing that we will receive heavier judgment.
  2. For in a lot things we all stumble. If anyone doesn’t stumble in word, the same is a perfect man, able to bridle the whole body also.
  3. facts, we put bits into the horses’ mouths so that they may obey us, and we guide their whole body.
  4. check this out, the ships also, though they are so huge and are driven by fierce winds, are yet guided by a hella tiny rudder, wherever the pilot desires.
  5. So the tongue is also a little member, and boasts major things. check it out how a tiny fire can spread to a large forest!
  6. And the tongue is a fire. The world of iniquity among our members is the tongue, which defiles the whole body, and sets on fire the course of nature, and is set on fire by Gehenna.
  7. For every kind of animal, bird, creeping thing, and thing in the sea, is tamed, and has been tamed by mankind.
  8. But nobody can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
  9. With it we bless our God and Father, and with it we curse men, who are made in the image of God.
 10. Out of the same mouth comes forth blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so.
 11. Does a spring send out from the same opening fresh and bitter water?
 12. Can a fig tree, my brothers, yield olives, or a vine figs? Thus no spring yields both salt water and fresh water.
 13. Who is smart and understanding among you? Let him show by his fire conduct that his deeds are done in gentleness of wisdom.
 14. But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, don’t boast and don’t lie against the truth.
 15. This wisdom is not that which comes down from above, but is earthly, sensual, and demonic.
 16. For where jealousy and selfish ambition are, there is confusion and every evil deed.
 17. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceful, gentle, reasonable, full of mercy and fire fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy.
 18. now the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who create peace.

# James Chapter 4

  1. Where do wars and fightings among you come through from? Don’t they come through from your pleasures that war in your members?
  2. You lust, and don’t have. You kill, covet, and can’t obtain. You fight and create war. You don’t have, cuz you don’t ask.
  3. You ask, and don’t receive, cuz you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it for your pleasures.
  4. You adulterers and adulteresses, don’t you get it that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever so basically wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.
  5. Or do you think that the Scripture says in vain, “The Spirit who lives in us yearns jealously”?
  6. But he gives more God's show love. so basically it says, “God resists the proud, but gives God's show love to the humble.”
  7. Be subject so basically to God. But resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
  8. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners; and purify your hearts, you double-minded.
  9. Lament, mourn, and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to gloom.
 10. Humble yourselves in the sight of the boss, and he will exalt you.
 11. Don’t spill the tea against one another, brothers. He who speaks against a brother and judges his brother, speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge.
 12. Only one is the lawgiver, who is able to rescue and to tear down. But who are you to judge another?
 13. come through now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow let’s slide into this city, and spend a year there, trade, and create a profit.”
 14. Whereas you don’t get it what your life will be like tomorrow. For what is your life? For you are a vapor, that appears for a little time, and then vanishes away.
 15. For you ought to say, “If the boss wills, we will both live, and do this or that.”
 16. But now you glory in your boasting. All such boasting is evil.
 17. To him so basically who knows to do fire, and doesn’t do it, to him it is messing up.

# James Chapter 5

  1. come through now, you stacked, weep and howl for your miseries that are coming on you.
  2. Your riches are corrupted and your garments are moth-eaten.
  3. Your gold and your silver are corroded, and their corrosion will be for a testimony against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up your treasure in the last days.
  4. check this out, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you have kept back by fraud, cry out, and the cries of those who reaped have entered into the ears of the boss of Armies.
  5. You have lived delicately on the earth, and taken your pleasure. You have nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter.
  6. You have condemned, you have murdered the doing what's right one. He doesn’t resist you.
  7. Be patient so basically, brothers, until the coming of the boss. check this out, the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient over it, until it receives the early and late rain.
  8. You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the boss is at hand.
  9. Don’t grumble, brothers, against one another, so that you won’t be judged. check this out, the judge stands at the door.
 10. grab, brothers, for an example of suffering and of patience, the prophets who spoke in the name of the boss.
 11. check this out, we call them blessed up who endured. You have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the boss in the outcome, and how the boss is full of compassion and mercy.
 12. But above all things, my brothers, don’t swear, neither by heaven, nor by the earth, nor by any other oath; but let your “yes” be “yes,” and your “no,” “no;” so that you don’t fall into hypocrisy.
 13. Is any among you suffering? Let him pray. Is any cheerful? Let him sing praises.
 14. Is any among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the assembly, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the boss,
 15. and the talking to God of trusting the process will heal him who is sick, and the boss will raise him up. If he has committed sins, he will be forgiven.
 16. Confess your offenses to one another, and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The insistent talking to God of a doing what's right person is powerfully effective.
 17. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it didn’t rain on the earth for three years and six months.
 18. He prayed again, and the sky gave rain, and the earth brought forth its fruit.
 19. Brothers, if any among you wanders from the truth, and someone turns him back,
 20. let him get it that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will rescue a soul from death, and will cover a multitude of sins.


JOHN
----

# John Chapter 1

  1. at the start was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
  2. The same was at the start with God.
  3. All things were made through him. Without him was not anything made that has been made.
  4. In him was life, and the life was the light of men.
  5. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness hasn’t overcome it.
  6. there came a man, sent from God, whose name was John.
  7. The same came as a witness, that he might testify about the light, that all might believe through him.
  8. He was not the light, but was sent that he might testify about the light.
  9. The true light that enlightens everyone was coming into the world.
 10. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world didn’t recognize him.
 11. He came to his own, and those who were his own didn’t receive him.
 12. But as a lot as received him, to them he gave the right to become God’s children, to those who believe in his name:
 13. who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
 14. The Word became flesh, and lived among us. We checked out his glory, such glory as of the one and only Son of the Father, full of God's show love and truth.
 15. John testified about him. He cried out, saying, “This was he of whom I said, ‘He who comes after me has surpassed me, for he was before me.’”
 16. From his fullness we all received God's show love upon God's show love.
 17. For the law was given through Moses. God's show love and truth were realized through Jesus anointed one.
 18. No one has seen God at any time. The one and only Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him.
 19. This is John’s testimony, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, “Who are you?”
 20. He declared, and didn’t deny, but he declared, “I am not the anointed one.”
 21. They asked him, “What then? Are you Elijah?” He said, “I am not.” “Are you the God's messenger?” He answered, “No.”
 22. They said so basically to him, “Who are you? hook it up us an answer to grab back to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?”
 23. He said, “I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘create straight the way of the boss,’ as Isaiah the God's messenger said.”
 24. The ones who had been sent were from the Pharisees.
 25. They asked him, “Why then do you baptize, if you are not the anointed one, nor Elijah, nor the God's messenger?”
 26. John answered them, “I baptize in water, but among you stands one whom you don’t get it.
 27. He is the one who comes after me, who is preferred before me, whose sandal strap I’m not worthy to loosen.”
 28. These things were done in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
 29. The next day, he checked out Jesus coming to him, and said, “check this out, the Lamb of God, who takes away the messing up of the world!
 30. This is he of whom I said, ‘After me comes a man who is preferred before me, for he was before me.’
 31. I didn’t get it him, but for this reason I came baptizing in water: that he would be revealed to Israel.”
 32. John testified, saying, “I have seen the Spirit descending like a dove out of heaven, and it remained on him.
 33. I didn’t recognize him, but he who sent me to baptize in water, he said to me, ‘On whomever you will check it out the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he who baptizes in the set apart Spirit.’
 34. I have seen, and have testified that this is the Son of God.”
 35. Again, the next day, John was standing with two of his disciples,
 36. and he looked at Jesus as he walked, and said, “check this out, the Lamb of God!”
 37. The two disciples heard him spill the tea, and they followed Jesus.
 38. Jesus turned, and checked out them following, and said to them, “What are you looking for?” They said to him, “teacher” (which is to say, being interpreted, Teacher), “where are you staying?”
 39. He said to them, “come through, and check it out.” They came and checked out where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day. It was about the tenth hour.
 40. One of the two who heard John, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother.
 41. He first found his own brother, Simon, and said to him, “We have found the savior!” (which is, being interpreted, anointed one).
 42. He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him, and said, “You are Simon the son of Jonah. You shall be called Cephas” (which is by interpretation, Peter).
 43. On the next day, he was determined to slide out into Galilee, and he found Philip. Jesus said to him, “roll with me.”
 44. now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter.
 45. Philip found Nathanael, and said to him, “We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, wrote: Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.”
 46. Nathanael said to him, “Can any fire thing come through out of Nazareth?” Philip said to him, “come through and check it out.”
 47. Jesus checked out Nathanael coming to him, and said about him, “check this out, an Israelite facts, in whom is no deceit!”
 48. Nathanael said to him, “How do you get it me?” Jesus answered him, “Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I checked out you.”
 49. Nathanael answered him, “teacher, you are the Son of God! You are ruler of Israel!”
 50. Jesus answered him, “cuz I told you, ‘I checked out you underneath the fig tree,’ do you believe? You will check it out greater things than these!”
 51. He said to him, “Most for sure, I tell you, hereafter you will check it out heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.”

# John Chapter 2

  1. The day three, there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee. Jesus’ mother was there.
  2. Jesus also was invited, with his disciples, to the marriage.
  3. When the wine ran out, Jesus’ mother said to him, “They have no wine.”
  4. Jesus said to her, “Woman, what does that have to do with you and me? My hour has not yet come through.”
  5. His mother said to the servants, “Whatever he says to you, do it.”
  6. now there were six water pots of stone set there after the Jews’ way of purifying, containing two or three metretes apiece.
  7. Jesus said to them, “Fill the water pots with water.” They filled them up to the brim.
  8. He said to them, “now draw some out, and grab it to the ruler of the feast.” So they took it.
  9. When the ruler of the feast tasted the water now become wine, and didn’t get it where it came from (but the servants who had drawn the water knew), the ruler of the feast called the bridegroom,
 10. and said to him, “Everyone serves the fire wine first, and when the guests have drunk freely, then that which is worse. You have kept the fire wine until now!”
 11. This beginning of his signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and revealed his glory; and his disciples believed in him.
 12. After this, he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, his brothers, and his disciples; and they stayed there a not much days.
 13. The Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
 14. He found in the God's house those who sold oxen, sheep, and doves, and the changers of money sitting.
 15. He made a whip of cords, and threw all out of the God's house, both the sheep and the oxen; and he poured out the changers’ money, and overthrew their tables.
 16. To those who sold the doves, he said, “grab these things out of here! Don’t create my Father’s house a marketplace!”
 17. His disciples remembered that it was written, “Zeal for your house will eat me up.”
 18. The Jews so basically answered him, “What sign do you show us, seeing that you do these things?”
 19. Jesus answered them, “tear down this God's house, and in three days I will raise it up.”
 20. The Jews so basically said, “It took forty-six years to put together this God's house! Will you raise it up in three days?”
 21. But he spoke of the God's house of his body.
 22. When so basically he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he said this, and they believed the Scripture, and the word which Jesus had said.
 23. now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover, during the feast, a lot believed in his name, observing his signs which he did.
 24. But Jesus didn’t trust himself to them, cuz he knew everyone,
 25. and cuz he didn’t need for anyone to testify concerning man; for he himself knew what was in man.

# John Chapter 3

  1. now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
  2. The same came to him by night, and said to him, “teacher, we get it that you are a teacher come through from God, for no one can do these signs that you do, unless God is with him.”
  3. Jesus answered him, “Most for sure, I tell you, unless one is born anew, he can’t check it out the God's squad of God.”
  4. Nicodemus said to him, “How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother’s womb, and be born?”
  5. Jesus answered, “Most for sure I tell you, unless one is born of water and spirit, he can’t enter into the God's squad of God!
  6. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
  7. Don’t marvel that I said to you, ‘You must be born anew.’
  8. The wind blows where it wants to, and you hear its sound, but don’t get it where it comes from and where it is going. So is everyone who is born of the Spirit.”
  9. Nicodemus answered him, “How can these things be?”
 10. Jesus answered him, “Are you the teacher of Israel, and don’t understand these things?
 11. Most for sure I tell you, we spill the tea that which we get it, and testify of that which we have seen, and you don’t receive our witness.
 12. If I told you earthly things and you don’t believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things?
 13. No one has ascended into heaven, but he who descended out of heaven, the Son of Man, who is in heaven.
 14. As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up,
 15. that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have living forever.
 16. For God so loved the world, that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have living forever.
 17. For God didn’t send his Son into the world to judge the world, but that the world should be saved through him.
 18. He who believes in him is not judged. He who doesn’t believe has been judged already, cuz he has not believed in the name of the one and only Son of God.
 19. This is the judgment, that the light has come through into the world, and men loved the darkness rather than the light; for their works were evil.
 20. For everyone who does evil hates the light, and doesn’t come through to the light, lest his works would be exposed.
 21. But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his works may be revealed, that they have been done in God.”
 22. After these things, Jesus came with his disciples into the land of Judea. He stayed there with them, and baptized.
 23. John also was baptizing in Enon near Salim, cuz there was much water there. They came, and were baptized.
 24. For John was not yet thrown into prison.
 25. there arose so basically a questioning on the part of John’s disciples with some Jews about purification.
 26. They came to John, and said to him, “teacher, he who was with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you have testified, check this out, the same baptizes, and everyone is coming to him.”
 27. John answered, “A man can receive nothing, unless it has been given him from heaven.
 28. You yourselves testify that I said, ‘I am not the anointed one,’ but, ‘I have been sent before him.’
 29. He who has the bride is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly cuz of the bridegroom’s voice. This, my joy, so basically is made full.
 30. He must increase, but I must decrease.
 31. He who comes from above is above all. He who is from the earth belongs to the earth, and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all.
 32. What he has seen and heard, of that he testifies; and no one receives his witness.
 33. He who has received his witness has set his seal to this, that God is true.
 34. For he whom God has sent speaks the words of God; for God gives the Spirit without measure.
 35. The Father loves the Son, and has given all things into his hand.
 36. One who believes in the Son has living forever, but one who disobeys the Son won’t check it out life, but the wrath of God remains on him.”

# John Chapter 4

  1. so basically when the boss knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John
  2. (although Jesus himself didn’t baptize, but his disciples),
  3. he left Judea, and departed into Galilee.
  4. He needed to pass through Samaria.
  5. So he came to a city of Samaria, called Sychar, near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son, Joseph.
  6. Jacob’s well was there. Jesus so basically, being tired from his journey, sat down by the well. It was about the sixth hour.
  7. A woman of Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, “hook it up me a drink.”
  8. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food.
  9. The Samaritan woman so basically said to him, “How is it that you, being a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a Samaritan woman?” (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.)
 10. Jesus answered her, “If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who says to you, ‘hook it up me a drink,’ you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water.”
 11. The woman said to him, “Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. From where then have you that living water?
 12. Are you greater than our father, Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank of it himself, as did his children, and his livestock?”
 13. Jesus answered her, “Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again,
 14. but whoever drinks of the water that I will hook it up him will never thirst again; but the water that I will hook it up him will become in him a well of water springing up to living forever.”
 15. The woman said to him, “Sir, hook it up me this water, so that I don’t get thirsty, neither come through all the way here to draw.”
 16. Jesus said to her, “slide, call your husband, and come through here.”
 17. The woman answered, “I have no husband.” Jesus said to her, “You said well, ‘I have no husband,’
 18. for you have had five husbands; and he whom you now have is not your husband. This you have said deadass.”
 19. The woman said to him, “Sir, I perceive that you are a God's messenger.
 20. Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to giving props.”
 21. Jesus said to her, “Woman, believe me, the hour comes, when neither in this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, will you giving props the Father.
 22. You giving props that which you don’t get it. We giving props that which we get it; for getting saved is from the Jews.
 23. But the hour comes, and now is, when the true worshippers will giving props the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father seeks such to be his worshippers.
 24. God is spirit, and those who giving props him must giving props in spirit and truth.”
 25. The woman said to him, “I get it that savior comes,” (he who is called anointed one). “When he has come through, he will declare to us all things.”
 26. Jesus said to her, “I am he, the one who speaks to you.”
 27. At this, his disciples came. They marveled that he was speaking with a woman; yet no one said, “What are you looking for?” or, “Why do you spill the tea with her?”
 28. So the woman left her water pot, and went away into the city, and said to the people,
 29. “come through, check it out a man who told me everything that I did. Can this be the anointed one?”
 30. They went out of the city, and were coming to him.
 31. In the meanwhile, the disciples urged him, saying, “teacher, eat.”
 32. But he said to them, “I have food to eat that you don’t get it about.”
 33. The disciples so basically said one to another, “Has anyone brought him something to eat?”
 34. Jesus said to them, “My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to accomplish his work.
 35. Don’t you say, ‘there are yet four months until the harvest?’ check this out, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and look at the fields, that they are white for harvest already.
 36. He who reaps receives wages, and gathers fruit to living forever; that both he who sows and he who reaps may be hyped together.
 37. For in this the saying is true, ‘One sows, and another reaps.’
 38. I sent you to reap that for which you haven’t labored. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor.”
 39. From that city a lot of the Samaritans believed in him cuz of the word of the woman, who testified, “He told me everything that I did.”
 40. So when the Samaritans came to him, they begged him to stay with them. He stayed there two days.
 41. a lot more believed cuz of his word.
 42. They said to the woman, “now we believe, not cuz of your speaking; for we have heard for ourselves, and get it that this is facts the anointed one, the Savior of the world.”
 43. After the two days he went out from there and went into Galilee.
 44. For Jesus himself testified that a God's messenger has no honor in his own country.
 45. So when he came into Galilee, the Galileans received him, having seen all the things that he did in Jerusalem at the feast, for they also went to the feast.
 46. Jesus came so basically again to Cana of Galilee, where he made the water into wine. there was a certain nobleman whose son was sick at Capernaum.
 47. When he heard that Jesus had come through out of Judea into Galilee, he went to him, and begged him that he would come through down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death.
 48. Jesus so basically said to him, “Unless you check it out signs and wonders, you will in no way believe.”
 49. The nobleman said to him, “Sir, come through down before my child dies.”
 50. Jesus said to him, “slide your way. Your son lives.” The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him, and he went his way.
 51. As he was now going down, his servants met him and reported, saying “Your child lives!”
 52. So he inquired of them the hour when he began to get better. They said so basically to him, “Yesterday at the seventh hour, the fever left him.”
 53. So the father knew that it was at that hour in which Jesus said to him, “Your son lives.” He believed, as did his whole house.
 54. This is again the second sign that Jesus did, having come through out of Judea into Galilee.

# John Chapter 5

  1. After these things, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
  2. now in Jerusalem by the sheep gate, there is a pool, which is called in Hebrew, “Bethesda,” having five porches.
  3. In these lay a major multitude of those who were sick, blind, lame, or paralyzed, waiting for the moving of the water;
  4. for an angel went down at certain times into the pool, and stirred up the water. Whoever stepped in first after the stirring of the water was made whole of whatever disease he had.
  5. A certain man was there, who had been sick for thirty-eight years.
  6. When Jesus checked out him lying there, and knew that he had been sick for a long time, he asked him, “Do you want to be made well?”
  7. The sick man answered him, “Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, but while I’m coming, another steps down before me.”
  8. Jesus said to him, “Arise, grab up your mat, and walk.”
  9. Immediately, the man was made well, and took up his mat and walked. now it was the Sabbath on that day.
 10. So the Jews said to him who was cured, “It is the Sabbath. It is not lawful for you to carry the mat.”
 11. He answered them, “He who made me well, the same said to me, ‘grab up your mat, and walk.’”
 12. then they asked him, “Who is the man who said to you, ‘grab up your mat, and walk’?”
 13. But he who was healed didn’t get it who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, a crowd being in the place.
 14. Afterward Jesus found him in the God's house, and said to him, “check this out, you are made well. messing up no more, so that nothing worse happens to you.”
 15. The man went away, and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well.
 16. For this cause the Jews persecuted Jesus, and sought to kill him, cuz he did these things on the Sabbath.
 17. But Jesus answered them, “My Father is still working, so I am working, too.”
 18. For this cause so basically the Jews sought all the more to kill him, cuz he not only broke the Sabbath, but also called God his own Father, making himself equal with God.
 19. Jesus so basically answered them, “Most for sure, I tell you, the Son can do nothing of himself, but what he sees the Father doing. For whatever things he does, these the Son also does likewise.
 20. For the Father has affection for the Son, and shows him all things that he himself does. He will show him greater works than these, that you may marvel.
 21. For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he desires.
 22. For the Father judges no one, but he has given all judgment to the Son,
 23. that all may honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. He who doesn’t honor the Son doesn’t honor the Father who sent him.
 24. “Most for sure I tell you, he who hears my word, and believes him who sent me, has living forever, and doesn’t come through into judgment, but has passed out of death into life.
 25. Most for sure, I tell you, the hour comes, and now is, when the dead will hear the Son of God’s voice; and those who hear will live.
 26. For as the Father has life in himself, even so he gave to the Son also to have life in himself.
 27. He also gave him authority to execute judgment, cuz he is a son of man.
 28. Don’t marvel at this, for the hour comes, in which all that are in the tombs will hear his voice,
 29. and will come through out; those who have done fire, to the resurrection of life; and those who have done evil, to the resurrection of judgment.
 30. I can of myself do nothing. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is doing what's right; cuz I don’t seek my own will, but the will of my Father who sent me.
 31. “If I testify about myself, my witness is not valid.
 32. It is another who testifies about me. I get it that the testimony which he testifies about me is true.
 33. You have sent to John, and he has testified to the truth.
 34. But the testimony which I receive is not from man. but like, I say these things that you may be saved.
 35. He was the burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to be hyped for a while in his light.
 36. But the testimony which I have is greater than that of John, for the works which the Father gave me to accomplish, the hella works that I do, testify about me, that the Father has sent me.
 37. The Father himself, who sent me, has testified about me. You have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his form.
 38. You don’t have his word living in you; cuz you don’t believe him whom he sent.
 39. “You search the Scriptures, cuz you think that in them you have living forever; and these are they which testify about me.
 40. Yet you will not come through to me, that you may have life.
 41. I don’t receive glory from men.
 42. But I get it you, that you don’t have God’s show love in yourselves.
 43. I have come through in my Father’s name, and you don’t receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him.
 44. How can you believe, who receive glory from one another, and you don’t seek the glory that comes from the only God?
 45. “Don’t think that I will accuse you to the Father. there is one who accuses you, even Moses, on whom you have set your hope.
 46. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me; for he wrote about me.
 47. But if you don’t believe his writings, how will you believe my words?”

# John Chapter 6

  1. After these things, Jesus went away to the other side of the sea of Galilee, which is also called the Sea of Tiberias.
  2. A major multitude followed him, cuz they checked out his signs which he did on those who were sick.
  3. Jesus went up into the mountain, and he sat there with his disciples.
  4. now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand.
  5. Jesus so basically lifting up his eyes, and seeing that a major multitude was coming to him, said to Philip, “Where are we to buy bread, that these may eat?”
  6. This he said to test him, for he himself knew what he would do.
  7. Philip answered him, “Two hundred denarii worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that everyone of them may receive a little.”
  8. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, said to him,
  9. “there is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are these among so a lot?”
 10. Jesus said, “Have the people sit down.” now there was much grass in that place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand.
 11. Jesus took the loaves; and having given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to those who were sitting down; likewise also of the fish as much as they desired.
 12. When they were filled, he said to his disciples, “Gather up the broken pieces which are left over, that nothing be lost.”
 13. So they gathered them up, and filled twelve baskets with broken pieces from the five barley loaves, which were left over by those who had eaten.
 14. When so basically the people checked out the sign which Jesus did, they said, “This is deadass the God's messenger who comes into the world.”
 15. Jesus so basically, perceiving that they were about to come through and grab him by force, to create him ruler, withdrew again to the mountain by himself.
 16. When evening came, his disciples went down to the sea,
 17. and they entered into the boat, and were going over the sea to Capernaum. It was now dark, and Jesus had not come through to them.
 18. The sea was tossed by a major wind blowing.
 19. When so basically they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they checked out Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing near to the boat; and they were scared.
 20. But he said to them, “It is I. Don’t be scared.”
 21. They were willing so basically to receive him into the boat. Immediately the boat was at the land where they were going.
 22. On the next day, the multitude that stood on the other side of the sea checked out that there was no other boat there, except the one in which his disciples had embarked, and that Jesus hadn’t entered with his disciples into the boat, but his disciples had gone away alone.
 23. but like boats from Tiberias came near to the place where they ate the bread after the boss had given thanks.
 24. When the multitude so basically checked out that Jesus wasn’t there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into the boats, and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.
 25. When they found him on the other side of the sea, they asked him, “teacher, when did you come through here?”
 26. Jesus answered them, “Most for sure I tell you, you seek me, not cuz you checked out signs, but cuz you ate of the loaves, and were filled.
 27. Don’t work for the food which perishes, but for the food which remains to living forever, which the Son of Man will hook it up to you. For God the Father has sealed him.”
 28. They said so basically to him, “What must we do, that we may work the works of God?”
 29. Jesus answered them, “This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent.”
 30. They said so basically to him, “What then do you do for a sign, that we may check it out, and believe you? What work do you do?
 31. Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness. As it is written, ‘He gave them bread out of heaven to eat.’”
 32. Jesus so basically said to them, “Most for sure, I tell you, it wasn’t Moses who gave you the bread out of heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread out of heaven.
 33. For the bread of God is that which comes down out of heaven, and gives life to the world.”
 34. They said so basically to him, “boss, always hook it up us this bread.”
 35. Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will not be hungry, and he who believes in me will never be thirsty.
 36. But I told you that you have seen me, and yet you don’t believe.
 37. All those whom the Father gives me will come through to me. He who comes to me I will in no way throw out.
 38. For I have come through down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me.
 39. This is the will of my Father who sent me, that of all he has given to me I should lose nothing, but should raise him up at the last day.
 40. This is the will of the one who sent me, that everyone who sees the Son, and believes in him, should have living forever; and I will raise him up at the last day.”
 41. The Jews so basically murmured concerning him, cuz he said, “I am the bread which came down out of heaven.”
 42. They said, “Isn’t this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we get it? How then does he say, ‘I have come through down out of heaven?’”
 43. so basically Jesus answered them, “Don’t murmur among yourselves.
 44. No one can come through to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up in the last day.
 45. It is written in the prophets, ‘They will all be taught by God.’ so basically everyone who hears from the Father, and has learned, comes to me.
 46. Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is from God. He has seen the Father.
 47. Most for sure, I tell you, he who believes in me has living forever.
 48. I am the bread of life.
 49. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died.
 50. This is the bread which comes down out of heaven, that anyone may eat of it and not die.
 51. I am the living bread which came down out of heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. Yes, the bread which I will hook it up for the life of the world is my flesh.”
 52. The Jews so basically contended with one another, saying, “How can this man hook it up us his flesh to eat?”
 53. Jesus so basically said to them, “Most for sure I tell you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you don’t have life in yourselves.
 54. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has living forever, and I will raise him up at the last day.
 55. For my flesh is food facts, and my blood is drink facts.
 56. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood lives in me, and I in him.
 57. As the living Father sent me, and I live cuz of the Father; so he who feeds on me, he will also live cuz of me.
 58. This is the bread which came down out of heaven—not as our fathers ate the manna, and died. He who eats this bread will live forever.”
 59. He said these things in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.
 60. so basically a lot of his disciples, when they heard this, said, “This is a hard saying! Who can listen up to it?”
 61. But Jesus knowing in himself that his disciples murmured at this, said to them, “Does this cause you to stumble?
 62. then what if you would check it out the Son of Man ascending to where he was before?
 63. It is the spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words that I spill the tea to you are spirit, and are life.
 64. But there are some of you who don’t believe.” For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who didn’t believe, and who it was who would betray him.
 65. He said, “For this cause have I said to you that no one can come through to me, unless it is given to him by my Father.”
 66. At this, a lot of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him.
 67. Jesus said so basically to the twelve, “You don’t also want to slide away, do you?”
 68. Simon Peter answered him, “boss, to whom would we slide? You have the words of living forever.
 69. We have come through to believe and get it that you are the anointed one, the Son of the living God.”
 70. Jesus answered them, “Didn’t I choose you, the twelve, and one of you is a devil?”
 71. now he spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for it was he who would betray him, being one of the twelve.

# John Chapter 7

  1. After these things, Jesus was walking in Galilee, for he wouldn’t walk in Judea, cuz the Jews sought to kill him.
  2. now the feast of the Jews, the Feast of Booths, was at hand.
  3. His brothers so basically said to him, “Depart from here, and slide into Judea, that your disciples also may check it out your works which you do.
  4. For no one does anything in secret, and himself seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, reveal yourself to the world.”
  5. For even his brothers didn’t believe in him.
  6. Jesus so basically said to them, “My time has not yet come through, but your time is always ready.
  7. The world can’t can't stand you, but it hates me, cuz I testify about it, that its works are evil.
  8. You slide up to the feast. I am not yet going up to this feast, cuz my time is not yet fulfilled.”
  9. Having said these things to them, he stayed in Galilee.
 10. But when his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but as it were in secret.
 11. The Jews so basically sought him at the feast, and said, “Where is he?”
 12. there was much murmuring among the multitudes concerning him. Some said, “He is a fire man.” Others said, “Not so, but he leads the multitude astray.”
 13. Yet no one spoke openly of him for fear of the Jews.
 14. But when it was now the midst of the feast, Jesus went up into the God's house and taught.
 15. The Jews so basically marveled, saying, “How does this man get it letters, having never been educated?”
 16. Jesus so basically answered them, “My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me.
 17. If anyone desires to do his will, he will get it about the teaching, whether it is from God, or if I am speaking from myself.
 18. He who speaks from himself seeks his own glory, but he who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and no unrighteousness is in him.
 19. Didn’t Moses hook it up you the law, and yet none of you keeps the law? Why do you seek to kill me?”
 20. The multitude answered, “You have a demon! Who seeks to kill you?”
 21. Jesus answered them, “I did one work, and you all marvel cuz of it.
 22. Moses has given you circumcision (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers), and on the Sabbath you circumcise a boy.
 23. If a boy receives circumcision on the Sabbath, that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you mad salty with me, cuz I made a man completely healthy on the Sabbath?
 24. Don’t judge according to appearance, but judge doing what's right judgment.”
 25. so basically some of them of Jerusalem said, “Isn’t this he whom they seek to kill?
 26. check this out, he speaks openly, and they say nothing to him. Can it be that the rulers facts get it that this is deadass the anointed one?
 27. but like we get it where this man comes from, but when the anointed one comes, no one will get it where he comes from.”
 28. Jesus so basically cried out in the God's house, teaching and saying, “You both get it me, and get it where I am from. I have not come through of myself, but he who sent me is true, whom you don’t get it.
 29. I get it him, cuz I am from him, and he sent me.”
 30. They sought so basically to grab him; but no one laid a hand on him, cuz his hour had not yet come through.
 31. But of the multitude, a lot believed in him. They said, “When the anointed one comes, he won’t do more signs than those which this man has done, will he?”
 32. The Pharisees heard the multitude murmuring these things concerning him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to arrest him.
 33. then Jesus said, “I will be with you a little while longer, then I slide to him who sent me.
 34. You will seek me, and won’t find me; and where I am, you can’t come through.”
 35. The Jews so basically said among themselves, “Where will this man slide that we won’t find him? Will he slide to the Dispersion among the Greeks, and drop knowledge the Greeks?
 36. What is this word that he said, ‘You will seek me, and won’t find me; and where I am, you can’t come through’?”
 37. now on the last and greatest day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, “If anyone is thirsty, let him come through to me and drink!
 38. He who believes in me, as the Scripture has said, from within him will flow rivers of living water.”
 39. But he said this about the Spirit, which those believing in him were to receive. For the set apart Spirit was not yet given, cuz Jesus wasn’t yet glorified.
 40. a lot of the multitude so basically, when they heard these words, said, “This is deadass the God's messenger.”
 41. Others said, “This is the anointed one.” But some said, “What, does the anointed one come through out of Galilee?
 42. Hasn’t the Scripture said that the anointed one comes of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David was?”
 43. So there arose a division in the multitude cuz of him.
 44. Some of them would have arrested him, but no one laid hands on him.
 45. The officers so basically came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, “Why didn’t you bring him?”
 46. The officers answered, “No man ever spoke like this man!”
 47. The Pharisees so basically answered them, “You aren’t also led astray, are you?
 48. Have any of the rulers believed in him, or of the Pharisees?
 49. But this multitude that doesn’t get it the law is accursed.”
 50. Nicodemus (he who came to him by night, being one of them) said to them,
 51. “Does our law judge a man, unless it first hears from him personally and knows what he does?”
 52. They answered him, “Are you also from Galilee? Search, and check it out that no God's messenger has arisen out of Galilee.”
 53. Everyone went to his own house,

# John Chapter 8

  1. but Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
  2. now hella early in the morning, he came again into the God's house, and all the people came to him. He sat down, and taught them.
  3. The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman taken in adultery. Having set her in the midst,
  4. they told him, “Teacher, we found this woman in adultery, in the hella act.
  5. now in our law, Moses commanded us to stone such. What then do you say about her?”
  6. They said this testing him, that they might have something to accuse him of. But Jesus stooped down, and wrote on the ground with his finger.
  7. But when they continued asking him, he looked up and said to them, “He who is without messing up among you, let him throw the first stone at her.”
  8. Again he stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground.
  9. They, when they heard it, being convicted by their conscience, went out one by one, beginning from the oldest, even to the last. Jesus was left alone with the woman where she was, in the middle.
 10. Jesus, standing up, checked out her and said, “Woman, where are your accusers? Did no one condemn you?”
 11. She said, “No one, boss.” Jesus said, “Neither do I condemn you. slide your way. From now on, messing up no more.”
 12. Again, so basically, Jesus spoke to them, saying, “I am the light of the world. He who follows me will not walk in the darkness, but will have the light of life.”
 13. The Pharisees so basically said to him, “You testify about yourself. Your testimony is not valid.”
 14. Jesus answered them, “Even if I testify about myself, my testimony is true, for I get it where I came from, and where I am going; but you don’t get it where I came from, or where I am going.
 15. You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one.
 16. Even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I am with the Father who sent me.
 17. It’s also written in your law that the testimony of two people is valid.
 18. I am one who testifies about myself, and the Father who sent me testifies about me.”
 19. They said so basically to him, “Where is your Father?” Jesus answered, “You get it neither me, nor my Father. If you knew me, you would get it my Father also.”
 20. Jesus spoke these words in the treasury, as he taught in the God's house. Yet no one arrested him, cuz his hour had not yet come through.
 21. Jesus said so basically again to them, “I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sins. Where I slide, you can’t come through.”
 22. The Jews so basically said, “Will he kill himself, that he says, ‘Where I am going, you can’t come through?’”
 23. He said to them, “You are from beneath. I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world.
 24. I said so basically to you that you will die in your sins; for unless you believe that I am he, you will die in your sins.”
 25. They said so basically to him, “Who are you?” Jesus said to them, “Just what I have been saying to you from the beginning.
 26. I have a lot things to spill the tea and to judge concerning you. but like he who sent me is true; and the things which I heard from him, these I say to the world.”
 27. They didn’t understand that he spoke to them about the Father.
 28. Jesus so basically said to them, “When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will get it that I am he, and I do nothing of myself, but as my Father taught me, I say these things.
 29. He who sent me is with me. The Father hasn’t left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him.”
 30. As he spoke these things, a lot believed in him.
 31. Jesus so basically said to those Jews who had believed him, “If you remain in my word, then you are deadass my disciples.
 32. You will get it the truth, and the truth will create you free.”
 33. They answered him, “We are Abraham’s seed, and have never been in bondage to anyone. How do you say, ‘You will be made free?’”
 34. Jesus answered them, “Most for sure I tell you, everyone who commits messing up is the bondservant of messing up.
 35. A bondservant doesn’t live in the house forever. A son remains forever.
 36. If so basically the Son makes you free, you will be free facts.
 37. I get it that you are Abraham’s seed, yet you seek to kill me, cuz my word finds no place in you.
 38. I say the things which I have seen with my Father; and you also do the things which you have seen with your father.”
 39. They answered him, “Our father is Abraham.” Jesus said to them, “If you were Abraham’s children, you would do the works of Abraham.
 40. But now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. Abraham didn’t do this.
 41. You do the works of your father.” They said to him, “We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, God.”
 42. so basically Jesus said to them, “If God were your father, you would show love me, for I came out and have come through from God. For I haven’t come through of myself, but he sent me.
 43. Why don’t you understand my speech? cuz you can’t hear my word.
 44. You are of your father, the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and doesn’t stand in the truth, cuz there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks on his own; for he is a liar, and its father.
 45. But cuz I tell the truth, you don’t believe me.
 46. Which of you convicts me of messing up? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me?
 47. He who is of God hears the words of God. For this cause you don’t hear, cuz you are not of God.”
 48. then the Jews answered him, “Don’t we say well that you are a Samaritan, and have a demon?”
 49. Jesus answered, “I don’t have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me.
 50. But I don’t seek my own glory. there is one who seeks and judges.
 51. Most for sure, I tell you, if a person keeps my word, he will never check it out death.”
 52. then the Jews said to him, “now we get it that you have a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets; and you say, ‘If a man keeps my word, he will never taste of death.’
 53. Are you greater than our father, Abraham, who died? The prophets died. Who do you create yourself out to be?”
 54. Jesus answered, “If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say that he is our God.
 55. You have not known him, but I get it him. If I said, ‘I don’t get it him,’ I would be like you, a liar. But I get it him, and keep his word.
 56. Your father Abraham rejoiced to check it out my day. He checked out it, and was glad.”
 57. The Jews so basically said to him, “You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham?”
 58. Jesus said to them, “Most for sure, I tell you, before Abraham came into existence, I AM.”
 59. so basically they took up stones to throw at him, but Jesus was hidden, and went out of the God's house, having gone through their midst, and so passed by.

# John Chapter 9

  1. As he passed by, he checked out a man blind from birth.
  2. His disciples asked him, “teacher, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?”
  3. Jesus answered, “Neither did this man messing up, nor his parents; but, that the works of God might be revealed in him.
  4. I must work the works of him who sent me, while it is day. The night is coming, when no one can work.
  5. While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.”
  6. When he had said this, he spat on the ground, made mud with the saliva, anointed the blind man’s eyes with the mud,
  7. and said to him, “slide, wash in the pool of Siloam” (which means “Sent”). So he went away, washed, and came back seeing.
  8. The neighbors so basically, and those who checked out that he was blind before, said, “Isn’t this he who sat and begged?”
  9. Others were saying, “It is he.” Still others were saying, “He looks like him.” He said, “I am he.”
 10. They so basically were asking him, “How were your eyes opened?”
 11. He answered, “A man called Jesus made mud, anointed my eyes, and said to me, ‘slide to the pool of Siloam, and wash.’ So I went away and washed, and I received sight.”
 12. then they asked him, “Where is he?” He said, “I don’t get it.”
 13. They brought him who had been blind to the Pharisees.
 14. It was a Sabbath when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes.
 15. Again so basically the Pharisees also asked him how he received his sight. He said to them, “He put mud on my eyes, I washed, and I check it out.”
 16. Some so basically of the Pharisees said, “This man is not from God, cuz he doesn’t keep the Sabbath.” Others said, “How can a man who is a sinner do such signs?” there was division among them.
 17. so basically they asked the blind man again, “What do you say about him, cuz he opened your eyes?” He said, “He is a God's messenger.”
 18. The Jews so basically did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and had received his sight, until they called the parents of him who had received his sight,
 19. and asked them, “Is this your son, whom you say was born blind? How then does he now check it out?”
 20. His parents answered them, “We get it that this is our son, and that he was born blind;
 21. but how he now sees, we don’t get it; or who opened his eyes, we don’t get it. He is of age. Ask him. He will spill the tea for himself.”
 22. His parents said these things cuz they feared the Jews; for the Jews had already agreed that if any man would confess him as anointed one, he would be put out of the synagogue.
 23. so basically his parents said, “He is of age. Ask him.”
 24. So they called the man who was blind a second time, and said to him, “hook it up glory to God. We get it that this man is a sinner.”
 25. He so basically answered, “I don’t get it if he is a sinner. One thing I do get it: that though I was blind, now I check it out.”
 26. They said to him again, “What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?”
 27. He answered them, “I told you already, and you didn’t listen up. Why do you want to hear it again? You don’t also want to become his disciples, do you?”
 28. They insulted him and said, “You are his Jesus' crew, but we are disciples of Moses.
 29. We get it that God has spoken to Moses. But as for this man, we don’t get it where he comes from.”
 30. The man answered them, “How amazing! You don’t get it where he comes from, yet he opened my eyes.
 31. We get it that God doesn’t listen up to sinners, but if anyone is a worshipper of God, and does his will, he listens to him.
 32. Since the world began it has never been heard of that anyone opened the eyes of someone born blind.
 33. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing.”
 34. They answered him, “You were altogether born in sins, and do you drop knowledge us?” They threw him out.
 35. Jesus heard that they had thrown him out, and finding him, he said, “Do you believe in the Son of God?”
 36. He answered, “Who is he, boss, that I may believe in him?”
 37. Jesus said to him, “You have both seen him, and it is he who speaks with you.”
 38. He said, “boss, I believe!” and he worshiped him.
 39. Jesus said, “I came into this world for judgment, that those who don’t check it out may check it out; and that those who check it out may become blind.”
 40. Those of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things, and said to him, “Are we also blind?”
 41. Jesus said to them, “If you were blind, you would have no messing up; but now you say, ‘We check it out.’ so basically your messing up remains.

# John Chapter 10

  1. “Most for sure, I tell you, one who doesn’t enter by the door into the sheep fold, but climbs up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber.
  2. But one who enters in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
  3. The gatekeeper opens the gate for him, and the sheep listen up to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out.
  4. Whenever he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep roll with him, for they get it his voice.
  5. They will by no means roll with a stranger, but will flee from him; for they don’t get it the voice of strangers.”
  6. Jesus spoke this parable to them, but they didn’t understand what he was telling them.
  7. Jesus so basically said to them again, “Most for sure, I tell you, I am the sheep’s door.
  8. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep didn’t listen up to them.
  9. I am the door. If anyone enters in by me, he will be saved, and will slide in and slide out, and will find pasture.
 10. The thief only comes to steal, kill, and tear down. I came that they may have life, and may have it abundantly.
 11. I am the fire shepherd. The fire shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.
 12. He who is a hired hand, and not a shepherd, who doesn’t own the sheep, sees the wolf coming, leaves the sheep, and flees. The wolf snatches the sheep, and scatters them.
 13. The hired hand flees cuz he is a hired hand, and doesn’t care for the sheep.
 14. I am the fire shepherd. I get it my own, and I’m known by my own;
 15. even as the Father knows me, and I get it the Father. I lay down my life for the sheep.
 16. I have other sheep, which are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will hear my voice. They will become one flock with one shepherd.
 17. so basically the Father loves me, cuz I lay down my life, that I may grab it again.
 18. No one takes it away from me, but I lay it down by myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to grab it again. I received this commandment from my Father.”
 19. so basically a division arose again among the Jews cuz of these words.
 20. a lot of them said, “He has a demon, and is insane! Why do you listen up to him?”
 21. Others said, “These are not the sayings of one possessed by a demon. It isn’t possible for a demon to open the eyes of the blind, is it?”
 22. It was the Feast of the Dedication at Jerusalem.
 23. It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the God's house, in Solomon’s porch.
 24. The Jews so basically came around him and said to him, “How long will you hold us in suspense? If you are the anointed one, tell us plainly.”
 25. Jesus answered them, “I told you, and you don’t believe. The works that I do in my Father’s name, these testify about me.
 26. But you don’t believe, cuz you are not of my sheep, as I told you.
 27. My sheep hear my voice, and I get it them, and they roll with me.
 28. I hook it up living forever to them. They will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.
 29. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all. No one is able to snatch them out of my Father’s hand.
 30. I and the Father are one.”
 31. so basically Jews took up stones again to stone him.
 32. Jesus answered them, “I have shown you a lot fire works from my Father. For which of those works do you stone me?”
 33. The Jews answered him, “We don’t stone you for a fire work, but for blasphemy: cuz you, being a man, create yourself God.”
 34. Jesus answered them, “Isn’t it written in your law, ‘I said, you are gods?’
 35. If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came (and the Scripture can’t be broken),
 36. do you say of him whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, ‘You blaspheme,’ cuz I said, ‘I am the Son of God?’
 37. If I don’t do the works of my Father, don’t believe me.
 38. But if I do them, though you don’t believe me, believe the works; that you may get it and believe that the Father is in me, and I in the Father.”
 39. They sought again to seize him, and he went out of their hand.
 40. He went away again beyond the Jordan into the place where John was baptizing at first, and there he stayed.
 41. a lot came to him. They said, “John facts did no sign, but everything that John said about this man is true.”
 42. a lot believed in him there.

# John Chapter 11

  1. now a certain man was sick, Lazarus from Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister, Martha.
  2. It was that Mary who had anointed the boss with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother, Lazarus, was sick.
  3. The sisters so basically sent to him, saying, “boss, check this out, he for whom you have major affection is sick.”
  4. But when Jesus heard it, he said, “This sickness is not to death, but for the glory of God, that God’s Son may be glorified by it.”
  5. now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
  6. When so basically he heard that he was sick, he stayed two days in the place where he was.
  7. then after this he said to the disciples, “Let’s slide into Judea again.”
  8. The disciples told him, “teacher, the Jews were just trying to stone you, and are you going there again?”
  9. Jesus answered, “Aren’t there twelve hours of daylight? If a man walks in the day, he doesn’t stumble, cuz he sees the light of this world.
 10. But if a man walks in the night, he stumbles, cuz the light isn’t in him.”
 11. He said these things, and after that, he said to them, “Our friend, Lazarus, has fallen asleep, but I am going so that I may awake him out of sleep.”
 12. The disciples so basically said, “boss, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover.”
 13. now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he spoke of taking rest in sleep.
 14. So Jesus said to them plainly then, “Lazarus is dead.
 15. I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe. Nevertheless, let’s slide to him.”
 16. Thomas so basically, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples, “Let’s slide also, that we may die with him.”
 17. So when Jesus came, he found that he had been in the tomb four days already.
 18. now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia away.
 19. a lot of the Jews had joined the women around Martha and Mary, to console them concerning their brother.
 20. then when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary stayed in the house.
 21. so basically Martha said to Jesus, “boss, if you would have been here, my brother wouldn’t have died.
 22. Even now I get it that, whatever you ask of God, God will hook it up you.”
 23. Jesus said to her, “Your brother will rise again.”
 24. Martha said to him, “I get it that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day.”
 25. Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will still live, even if he dies.
 26. Whoever lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?”
 27. She said to him, “Yes, boss. I have come through to believe that you are the anointed one, God’s Son, he who comes into the world.”
 28. When she had said this, she went away, and called Mary, her sister, secretly, saying, “The Teacher is here, and is calling you.”
 29. When she heard this, she arose quickly, and went to him.
 30. now Jesus had not yet come through into the village, but was in the place where Martha met him.
 31. then the Jews who were with her in the house, and were consoling her, when they checked out Mary, that she rose up quickly and went out, followed her, saying, “She is going to the tomb to weep there.”
 32. so basically when Mary came to where Jesus was, and checked out him, she fell down at his feet, saying to him, “boss, if you would have been here, my brother wouldn’t have died.”
 33. When Jesus so basically checked out her weeping, and the Jews weeping who came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled,
 34. and said, “Where have you laid him?” They told him, “boss, come through and check it out.”
 35. Jesus wept.
 36. The Jews so basically said, “check it out how much affection he had for him!”
 37. Some of them said, “Couldn’t this man, who opened the eyes of him who was blind, have also kept this man from dying?”
 38. Jesus so basically, again groaning in himself, came to the tomb. now it was a cave, and a stone lay against it.
 39. Jesus said, “grab away the stone.” Martha, the sister of him who was dead, said to him, “boss, by this time there is a stench, for he has been dead four days.”
 40. Jesus said to her, “Didn’t I tell you that if you believed, you would check it out God’s glory?”
 41. So they took away the stone from the place where the dead man was lying. Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, “Father, I thank you that you listened to me.
 42. I get it that you always listen up to me, but cuz of the multitude that stands around I said this, that they may believe that you sent me.”
 43. When he had said this, he cried with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come through out!”
 44. He who was dead came out, bound hand and foot with wrappings, and his face was wrapped around with a cloth. Jesus said to them, “Free him, and let him slide.”
 45. so basically a lot of the Jews, who came to Mary and checked out what Jesus did, believed in him.
 46. But some of them went away to the Pharisees, and told them the things which Jesus had done.
 47. The chief priests so basically and the Pharisees gathered a council, and said, “What are we doing? For this man does a lot signs.
 48. If we leave him alone like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come through and grab away both our place and our nation.”
 49. But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, being high priest that year, said to them, “You get it nothing at all,
 50. nor do you consider that it is advantageous for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation not perish.”
 51. now he didn’t say this of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation,
 52. and not for the nation only, but that he might also gather together into one the children of God who are scattered abroad.
 53. So from that day forward they took counsel that they might put him to death.
 54. Jesus so basically walked no more openly among the Jews, but departed from there into the country near the wilderness, to a city called Ephraim. He stayed there with his disciples.
 55. now the Passover of the Jews was at hand. a lot went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover, to purify themselves.
 56. then they sought for Jesus and spoke one with another, as they stood in the God's house, “What do you think—that he isn’t coming to the feast at all?”
 57. now the chief priests and the Pharisees had commanded that if anyone knew where he was, he should report it, that they might seize him.

# John Chapter 12

  1. then six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had been dead, whom he raised from the dead.
  2. So they made him a supper there. Martha served, but Lazarus was one of those who sat at the table with him.
  3. Mary, so basically, took a pound of ointment of pure nard, hella precious, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the ointment.
  4. then Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, one of his disciples, who would betray him, said,
  5. “Why wasn’t this ointment sold for three hundred denarii, and given to the broke?”
  6. now he said this, not cuz he cared for the broke, but cuz he was a thief, and having the money box, used to steal what was put into it.
  7. But Jesus said, “Leave her alone. She has kept this for the day of my burial.
  8. For you always have the broke with you, but you don’t always have me.”
  9. A large crowd so basically of the Jews learned that he was there, and they came, not for Jesus’ sake only, but that they might check it out Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead.
 10. But the chief priests conspired to put Lazarus to death also,
 11. cuz on account of him a lot of the Jews went away and believed in Jesus.
 12. On the next day a major multitude had come through to the feast. When they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
 13. they took the branches of the palm trees, and went out to meet him, and cried out, “save us! blessed up is he who comes in the name of the boss, the ruler of Israel!”
 14. Jesus, having found a young donkey, sat on it. As it is written,
 15. “Don’t be scared, daughter of Zion. check this out, your ruler comes, sitting on a donkey’s colt.”
 16. His disciples didn’t understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about him, and that they had done these things to him.
 17. The multitude so basically that was with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead, was testifying about it.
 18. For this cause also the multitude went and met him, cuz they heard that he had done this sign.
 19. The Pharisees so basically said among themselves, “check it out how you accomplish nothing. check this out, the world has gone after him.”
 20. now there were certain Greeks among those that went up to giving props at the feast.
 21. These, so basically, came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, “Sir, we want to check it out Jesus.”
 22. Philip came and told Andrew, and in turn, Andrew came with Philip, and they told Jesus.
 23. Jesus answered them, “The time has come through for the Son of Man to be glorified.
 24. Most for sure I tell you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains by itself alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit.
 25. He who loves his life will lose it. He who hates his life in this world will keep it to living forever.
 26. If anyone serves me, let him roll with me. Where I am, there will my helper also be. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
 27. “now my soul is troubled. What shall I say? ‘Father, rescue me from this time?’ But for this cause I came to this time.
 28. Father, glorify your name!” then there came a voice out of the sky, saying, “I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again.”
 29. The multitude so basically, who stood by and heard it, said that it had thundered. Others said, “An angel has spoken to him.”
 30. Jesus answered, “This voice hasn’t come through for my sake, but for your sakes.
 31. now is the judgment of this world. now the prince of this world will be cast out.
 32. And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself.”
 33. But he said this, signifying by what kind of death he should die.
 34. The multitude answered him, “We have heard out of the law that the anointed one remains forever. How do you say, ‘The Son of Man must be lifted up?’ Who is this Son of Man?”
 35. Jesus so basically said to them, “Yet a little while the light is with you. Walk while you have the light, that darkness doesn’t overtake you. He who walks in the darkness doesn’t get it where he is going.
 36. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become children of light.” Jesus said these things, and he departed and hid himself from them.
 37. But though he had done so a lot signs before them, yet they didn’t believe in him,
 38. that the word of Isaiah the God's messenger might be fulfilled, which he spoke, “boss, who has believed our report? To whom has the arm of the boss been revealed?”
 39. For this cause they couldn’t believe, for Isaiah said again,
 40. “He has blinded their eyes and he hardened their heart, lest they should check it out with their eyes, and perceive with their heart, and would turn, and I would heal them.”
 41. Isaiah said these things when he checked out his glory, and spoke of him.
 42. Nevertheless even of the rulers a lot believed in him, but cuz of the Pharisees they didn’t confess it, so that they wouldn’t be put out of the synagogue,
 43. for they loved men’s praise more than God’s praise.
 44. Jesus cried out and said, “Whoever believes in me, believes not in me, but in him who sent me.
 45. He who sees me sees him who sent me.
 46. I have come through as a light into the world, that whoever believes in me may not remain in the darkness.
 47. If anyone listens to my sayings, and doesn’t believe, I don’t judge him. For I came not to judge the world, but to rescue the world.
 48. He who rejects me, and doesn’t receive my sayings, has one who judges him. The word that I spoke, the same will judge him in the last day.
 49. For I spoke not from myself, but the Father who sent me, he gave me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should spill the tea.
 50. I get it that his commandment is living forever. The things so basically which I spill the tea, even as the Father has said to me, so I spill the tea.”

# John Chapter 13

  1. now before the feast of the Passover, Jesus, knowing that his time had come through that he would depart from this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end.
  2. During supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, to betray him,
  3. Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he came forth from God, and was going to God,
  4. arose from supper, and laid aside his outer garments. He took a towel, and wrapped a towel around his waist.
  5. then he poured water into the basin, and began to wash the disciples’ feet, and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him.
  6. then he came to Simon Peter. He said to him, “boss, do you wash my feet?”
  7. Jesus answered him, “You don’t get it what I am doing now, but you will understand later.”
  8. Peter said to him, “You will never wash my feet!” Jesus answered him, “If I don’t wash you, you have no part with me.”
  9. Simon Peter said to him, “boss, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head!”
 10. Jesus said to him, “Someone who has bathed only needs to have his feet washed, but is completely clean. You are clean, but not all of you.”
 11. For he knew him who would betray him, so basically he said, “You are not all clean.”
 12. So when he had washed their feet, put his outer garment back on, and sat down again, he said to them, “Do you get it what I have done to you?
 13. You call me, ‘Teacher’ and ‘boss.’ You say so correctly, for so I am.
 14. If I then, the boss and the Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet.
 15. For I have given you an example, that you also should do as I have done to you.
 16. Most for sure I tell you, a helper is not greater than his boss, neither one who is sent greater than he who sent him.
 17. If you get it these things, blessed up are you if you do them.
 18. I don’t spill the tea concerning all of you. I get it whom I have chosen. But that the Scripture may be fulfilled, ‘He who eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me.’
 19. From now on, I tell you before it happens, that when it happens, you may believe that I am he.
 20. Most for sure I tell you, he who receives whomever I send, receives me; and he who receives me, receives him who sent me.”
 21. When Jesus had said this, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, “Most for sure I tell you that one of you will betray me.”
 22. The disciples looked at one another, perplexed about whom he spoke.
 23. One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was at the table, leaning against Jesus’ breast.
 24. Simon Peter so basically beckoned to him, and said to him, “Tell us who it is of whom he speaks.”
 25. He, leaning back, as he was, on Jesus’ breast, asked him, “boss, who is it?”
 26. Jesus so basically answered, “It is he to whom I will hook it up this piece of bread when I have dipped it.” So when he had dipped the piece of bread, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot.
 27. After the piece of bread, then Satan entered into him. then Jesus said to him, “What you do, do quickly.”
 28. now no man at the table knew why he said this to him.
 29. For some thought, cuz Judas had the money box, that Jesus said to him, “Buy what things we need for the feast,” or that he should hook it up something to the broke.
 30. so basically, having received that morsel, he went out immediately. It was night.
 31. When he had gone out, Jesus said, “now the Son of Man has been glorified, and God has been glorified in him.
 32. If God has been glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and he will glorify him immediately.
 33. Little children, I will be with you a little while longer. You will seek me, and as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I am going, you can’t come through,’ so now I tell you.
 34. A new commandment I hook it up to you, that you show love one another, just like I have loved you; that you also show love one another.
 35. By this everyone will get it that you are my disciples, if you have show love for one another.”
 36. Simon Peter said to him, “boss, where are you going?” Jesus answered, “Where I am going, you can’t roll with now, but you will roll with afterwards.”
 37. Peter said to him, “boss, why can’t I roll with you now? I will lay down my life for you.”
 38. Jesus answered him, “Will you lay down your life for me? Most for sure I tell you, the rooster won’t crow until you have denied me three times.

# John Chapter 14

  1. “Don’t let your heart be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me.
  2. In my Father’s house are a lot homes. If it weren’t so, I would have told you. I am going to prepare a place for you.
  3. If I slide and prepare a place for you, I will come through again, and will receive you to myself; that where I am, you may be there also.
  4. Where I slide, you get it, and you get it the way.”
  5. Thomas said to him, “boss, we don’t get it where you are going. How can we get it the way?”
  6. Jesus said to him, “I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father, except through me.
  7. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on, you get it him, and have seen him.”
  8. Philip said to him, “boss, show us the Father, and that will be enough for us.”
  9. Jesus said to him, “Have I been with you such a long time, and do you not get it me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. How do you say, ‘Show us the Father?’
 10. Don’t you believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I tell you, I spill the tea not from myself; but the Father who lives in me does his works.
 11. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; or else believe me for the hella works’ sake.
 12. Most for sure I tell you, he who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also; and he will do greater works than these, cuz I am going to my Father.
 13. Whatever you will ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
 14. If you will ask anything in my name, I will do it.
 15. If you show love me, keep my commandments.
 16. I will pray to the Father, and he will hook it up you another Counselor, that he may be with you forever,—
 17. the Spirit of truth, whom the world can’t receive; for it doesn’t check it out him, neither knows him. You get it him, for he lives with you, and will be in you.
 18. I will not leave you orphans. I will come through to you.
 19. Yet a little while, and the world will check it out me no more; but you will check it out me. cuz I live, you will live also.
 20. In that day you will get it that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
 21. One who has my commandments, and keeps them, that person is one who loves me. One who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will show love him, and will reveal myself to him.”
 22. Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, “boss, what has happened that you are about to reveal yourself to us, and not to the world?”
 23. Jesus answered him, “If a man loves me, he will keep my word. My Father will show love him, and we will come through to him, and create our home with him.
 24. He who doesn’t show love me doesn’t keep my words. The word which you hear isn’t mine, but the Father’s who sent me.
 25. I have said these things to you, while still living with you.
 26. But the Counselor, the set apart Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will drop knowledge you all things, and will remind you of all that I said to you.
 27. Peace I leave with you. My peace I hook it up to you; not as the world gives, hook it up I to you. Don’t let your heart be troubled, neither let it be fearful.
 28. You heard how I told you, ‘I slide away, and I come through to you.’ If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, cuz I said ‘I am going to my Father;’ for the Father is greater than I.
 29. now I have told you before it happens so that, when it happens, you may believe.
 30. I will no more spill the tea much with you, for the prince of the world comes, and he has nothing in me.
 31. But that the world may get it that I show love the Father, and as the Father commanded me, even so I do. Arise, let us slide from here.

# John Chapter 15

  1. “I am the true vine, and my Father is the farmer.
  2. Every branch in me that doesn’t bear fruit, he takes away. Every branch that bears fruit, he prunes, that it may bear more fruit.
  3. You are already pruned clean cuz of the word which I have spoken to you.
  4. Remain in me, and I in you. As the branch can’t bear fruit by itself, unless it remains in the vine, so neither can you, unless you remain in me.
  5. I am the vine. You are the branches. He who remains in me, and I in him, the same bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.
  6. If a man doesn’t remain in me, he is thrown out as a branch, and is withered; and they gather them, throw them into the fire, and they are burned.
  7. If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, you will ask whatever you desire, and it will be done for you.
  8. “In this is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit; and so you will be my disciples.
  9. Even as the Father has loved me, I also have loved you. Remain in my show love.
 10. If you keep my commandments, you will remain in my show love; even as I have kept my Father’s commandments, and remain in his show love.
 11. I have spoken these things to you, that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be made full.
 12. “This is my commandment, that you show love one another, even as I have loved you.
 13. Greater show love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.
 14. You are my friends, if you do whatever I command you.
 15. No longer do I call you servants, for the helper doesn’t get it what his boss does. But I have called you friends, for everything that I heard from my Father, I have made known to you.
 16. You didn’t choose me, but I chose you, and appointed you, that you should slide and bear fruit, and that your fruit should remain; that whatever you will ask of the Father in my name, he may hook it up it to you.
 17. “I command these things to you, that you may show love one another.
 18. If the world hates you, you get it that it has hated me before it hated you.
 19. If you were of the world, the world would show love its own. But cuz you are not of the world, since I chose you out of the world, so basically the world hates you.
 20. Remember the word that I said to you: ‘A helper is not greater than his boss.’ If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will keep yours also.
 21. But all these things will they do to you for my name’s sake, cuz they don’t get it him who sent me.
 22. If I had not come through and spoken to them, they would not have had messing up; but now they have no excuse for their messing up.
 23. He who hates me, hates my Father also.
 24. If I hadn’t done among them the works which no one else did, they wouldn’t have had messing up. But now have they seen and also hated both me and my Father.
 25. But this happened so that the word may be fulfilled which was written in their law, ‘They hated me without a cause.’
 26. “When the Counselor has come through, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will testify about me.
 27. You will also testify, cuz you have been with me from the beginning.

# John Chapter 16

  1. “These things have I spoken to you, so that you wouldn’t be caused to stumble.
  2. They will put you out of the synagogues. Yes, the time comes that whoever kills you will think that he offers service to God.
  3. They will do these things cuz they have not known the Father, nor me.
  4. But I have told you these things, so that when the time comes, you may remember that I told you about them. I didn’t tell you these things from the beginning, cuz I was with you.
  5. But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, ‘Where are you going?’
  6. But cuz I have told you these things, feeling down has filled your heart.
  7. Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is to your advantage that I slide away, for if I don’t slide away, the Counselor won’t come through to you. But if I slide, I will send him to you.
  8. When he has come through, he will convict the world about messing up, about righteousness, and about judgment;
  9. about messing up, cuz they don’t believe in me;
 10. about righteousness, cuz I am going to my Father, and you won’t check it out me any more;
 11. about judgment, cuz the prince of this world has been judged.
 12. “I have yet a lot things to tell you, but you can’t bear them now.
 13. but like when he, the Spirit of truth, has come through, he will guide you into all truth, for he will not spill the tea from himself; but whatever he hears, he will spill the tea. He will declare to you things that are coming.
 14. He will glorify me, for he will grab from what is mine, and will declare it to you.
 15. All things whatever the Father has are mine; so basically I said that he takes of mine, and will declare it to you.
 16. A little while, and you will not check it out me. Again a little while, and you will check it out me.”
 17. Some of his disciples so basically said to one another, “What is this that he says to us, ‘A little while, and you won’t check it out me, and again a little while, and you will check it out me;’ and, ‘cuz I slide to the Father?’”
 18. They said so basically, “What is this that he says, ‘A little while?’ We don’t get it what he is saying.”
 19. so basically Jesus perceived that they wanted to ask him, and he said to them, “Do you inquire among yourselves concerning this, that I said, ‘A little while, and you won’t check it out me, and again a little while, and you will check it out me?’
 20. Most for sure I tell you, that you will weep and lament, but the world will be hyped. You will be sorrowful, but your feeling down will be turned into joy.
 21. A woman, when she gives birth, has feeling down, cuz her time has come through. But when she has delivered the child, she doesn’t remember the anguish any more, for the joy that a human being is born into the world.
 22. so basically you now have feeling down, but I will check it out you again, and your heart will be hyped, and no one will grab your joy away from you.
 23. “In that day you will ask me no questions. Most for sure I tell you, whatever you may ask of the Father in my name, he will hook it up it to you.
 24. Until now, you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be made full.
 25. I have spoken these things to you in figures of speech. But the time is coming when I will no more spill the tea to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father.
 26. In that day you will ask in my name; and I don’t say to you, that I will pray to the Father for you,
 27. for the Father himself loves you, cuz you have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from God.
 28. I came out from the Father, and have come through into the world. Again, I leave the world, and slide to the Father.”
 29. His disciples said to him, “check this out, now you spill the tea plainly, and spill the tea no figures of speech.
 30. now we get it that you get it all things, and don’t need for anyone to question you. By this we believe that you came forth from God.”
 31. Jesus answered them, “Do you now believe?
 32. check this out, the time is coming, yes, and has now come through, that you will be scattered, everyone to his own place, and you will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, cuz the Father is with me.
 33. I have told you these things, that in me you may have peace. In the world you have oppression; but cheer up! I have overcome the world.”

# John Chapter 17

  1. Jesus said these things, and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said, “Father, the time has come through. Glorify your Son, that your Son may also glorify you;
  2. even as you gave him authority over all flesh, he will hook it up living forever to all whom you have given him.
  3. This is living forever, that they should get it you, the only true God, and him whom you sent, Jesus anointed one.
  4. I glorified you on the earth. I have accomplished the work which you have given me to do.
  5. now, Father, glorify me with your own self with the glory which I had with you before the world existed.
  6. I revealed your name to the people whom you have given me out of the world. They were yours, and you have given them to me. They have kept your word.
  7. now they have known that all things whatever you have given me are from you,
  8. for the words which you have given me I have given to them, and they received them, and knew for sure that I came forth from you, and they have believed that you sent me.
  9. I pray for them. I don’t pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours.
 10. All things that are mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them.
 11. I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I am coming to you. set apart Father, keep them through your name which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are.
 12. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. Those whom you have given me I have kept. None of them is lost, except the son of destruction, that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
 13. But now I come through to you, and I say these things in the world, that they may have my joy made full in themselves.
 14. I have given them your word. The world hated them, cuz they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
 15. I pray not that you would grab them from the world, but that you would keep them from the evil one.
 16. They are not of the world even as I am not of the world.
 17. Sanctify them in your truth. Your word is truth.
 18. As you sent me into the world, even so I have sent them into the world.
 19. For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth.
 20. Not for these only do I pray, but for those also who believe in me through their word,
 21. that they may all be one; even as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be one in us; that the world may believe that you sent me.
 22. The glory which you have given me, I have given to them; that they may be one, even as we are one;
 23. I in them, and you in me, that they may be perfected into one; that the world may get it that you sent me, and loved them, even as you loved me.
 24. Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, that they may check it out my glory, which you have given me, for you loved me before the foundation of the world.
 25. doing what's right Father, the world hasn’t known you, but I knew you; and these knew that you sent me.
 26. I made known to them your name, and will create it known; that the show love with which you loved me may be in them, and I in them.”

# John Chapter 18

  1. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went out with his disciples over the brook Kidron, where there was a garden, into which he and his disciples entered.
  2. now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus a lot met there with his disciples.
  3. Judas then, having taken a detachment of soldiers and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, came there with lanterns, torches, and weapons.
  4. Jesus so basically, knowing all the things that were happening to him, went forth, and said to them, “Who are you looking for?”
  5. They answered him, “Jesus of Nazareth.” Jesus said to them, “I am he.” Judas also, who betrayed him, was standing with them.
  6. When so basically he said to them, “I am he,” they went backward, and fell to the ground.
  7. Again so basically he asked them, “Who are you looking for?” They said, “Jesus of Nazareth.”
  8. Jesus answered, “I told you that I am he. If so basically you seek me, let these slide their way,”
  9. that the word might be fulfilled which he spoke, “Of those whom you have given me, I have lost none.”
 10. Simon Peter so basically, having a sword, drew it, and struck the high priest’s helper, and cut off his right ear. The helper’s name was Malchus.
 11. Jesus so basically said to Peter, “Put the sword into its sheath. The cup which the Father has given me, shall I not surely drink it?”
 12. So the detachment, the commanding officer, and the officers of the Jews, seized Jesus and bound him,
 13. and led him to Annas first, for he was father-in-law to Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
 14. now it was Caiaphas who advised the Jews that it was expedient that one man should perish for the people.
 15. Simon Peter followed Jesus, as did another Jesus' crew. now that Jesus' crew was known to the high priest, and entered in with Jesus into the court of the high priest;
 16. but Peter was standing at the door outside. So the other Jesus' crew, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to her who kept the door, and brought in Peter.
 17. then the maid who kept the door said to Peter, “Are you also one of this man’s disciples?” He said, “I am not.”
 18. now the servants and the officers were standing there, having made a fire of coals, for it was cold. They were warming themselves. Peter was with them, standing and warming himself.
 19. The high priest so basically asked Jesus about his disciples, and about his teaching.
 20. Jesus answered him, “I spoke openly to the world. I always taught in synagogues, and in the God's house, where the Jews always meet. I said nothing in secret.
 21. Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me what I said to them. check this out, these get it the things which I said.”
 22. When he had said this, one of the officers standing by slapped Jesus with his hand, saying, “Do you answer the high priest like that?”
 23. Jesus answered him, “If I have spoken evil, testify of the evil; but if well, why do you beat me?”
 24. Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest.
 25. now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. They said so basically to him, “You aren’t also one of his disciples, are you?” He denied it, and said, “I am not.”
 26. One of the servants of the high priest, being a relative of him whose ear Peter had cut off, said, “Didn’t I check it out you in the garden with him?”
 27. Peter so basically denied it again, and immediately the rooster crowed.
 28. They led Jesus so basically from Caiaphas into the Praetorium. It was early, and they themselves didn’t enter into the Praetorium, that they might not be defiled, but might eat the Passover.
 29. Pilate so basically went out to them, and said, “What accusation do you bring against this man?”
 30. They answered him, “If this man weren’t an evildoer, we wouldn’t have delivered him up to you.”
 31. Pilate so basically said to them, “grab him yourselves, and judge him according to your law.” so basically the Jews said to him, “It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death,”
 32. that the word of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spoke, signifying by what kind of death he should die.
 33. Pilate so basically entered again into the Praetorium, called Jesus, and said to him, “Are you the ruler of the Jews?”
 34. Jesus answered him, “Do you say this by yourself, or did others tell you about me?”
 35. Pilate answered, “I’m not a Jew, am I? Your own nation and the chief priests delivered you to me. What have you done?”
 36. Jesus answered, “My God's squad is not of this world. If my God's squad were of this world, then my servants would fight, that I wouldn’t be delivered to the Jews. But now my God's squad is not from here.”
 37. Pilate so basically said to him, “Are you a ruler then?” Jesus answered, “You say that I am a ruler. For this reason I have been born, and for this reason I have come through into the world, that I should testify to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.”
 38. Pilate said to him, “What is truth?” When he had said this, he went out again to the Jews, and said to them, “I find no basis for a charge against him.
 39. But you have a custom, that I should release someone to you at the Passover. so basically do you want me to release to you the ruler of the Jews?”
 40. then they all shouted again, saying, “Not this man, but Barabbas!” now Barabbas was a robber.

# John Chapter 19

  1. So Pilate then took Jesus, and flogged him.
  2. The soldiers twisted thorns into a crown, and put it on his head, and dressed him in a purple garment.
  3. They kept saying, “Hail, ruler of the Jews!” and they kept slapping him.
  4. then Pilate went out again, and said to them, “check this out, I bring him out to you, that you may get it that I find no basis for a charge against him.”
  5. Jesus so basically came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple garment. Pilate said to them, “check this out, the man!”
  6. When so basically the chief priests and the officers checked out him, they shouted, saying, “Crucify! Crucify!” Pilate said to them, “grab him yourselves, and crucify him, for I find no basis for a charge against him.”
  7. The Jews answered him, “We have a law, and by our law he ought to die, cuz he made himself the Son of God.”
  8. When so basically Pilate heard this saying, he was more scared.
  9. He entered into the Praetorium again, and said to Jesus, “Where are you from?” But Jesus gave him no answer.
 10. Pilate so basically said to him, “Aren’t you speaking to me? Don’t you get it that I have power to release you, and have power to crucify you?”
 11. Jesus answered, “You would have no power at all against me, unless it were given to you from above. so basically he who delivered me to you has greater messing up.”
 12. At this, Pilate was seeking to release him, but the Jews cried out, saying, “If you release this man, you aren’t Caesar’s friend! Everyone who makes himself a ruler speaks against Caesar!”
 13. When Pilate so basically heard these words, he brought Jesus out, and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called “The Pavement,” but in Hebrew, “Gabbatha.”
 14. now it was the Preparation Day of the Passover, at about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, “check this out, your ruler!”
 15. They cried out, “Away with him! Away with him! Crucify him!” Pilate said to them, “Shall I crucify your ruler?” The chief priests answered, “We have no ruler but Caesar!”
 16. So then he delivered him to them to be crucified. So they took Jesus and led him away.
 17. He went out, bearing his cross, to the place called “The Place of a Skull,” which is called in Hebrew, “Golgotha,”
 18. where they crucified him, and with him two others, on either side one, and Jesus in the middle.
 19. Pilate wrote a title also, and put it on the cross. there was written, “JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE ruler OF THE JEWS.”
 20. so basically a lot of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; and it was written in Hebrew, in Latin, and in Greek.
 21. The chief priests of the Jews so basically said to Pilate, “Don’t write, ‘The ruler of the Jews,’ but, ‘he said, I am ruler of the Jews.’”
 22. Pilate answered, “What I have written, I have written.”
 23. then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and also the coat. now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout.
 24. then they said to one another, “Let’s not tear it, but cast lots for it to decide whose it will be,” that the Scripture might be fulfilled, which says, “They parted my garments among them. For my cloak they cast lots.” so basically the soldiers did these things.
 25. But there were standing by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.
 26. so basically when Jesus checked out his mother, and the Jesus' crew whom he loved standing there, he said to his mother, “Woman, check this out your son!”
 27. then he said to the Jesus' crew, “check this out, your mother!” From that hour, the Jesus' crew took her to his own home.
 28. After this, Jesus, seeing that all things were now finished, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, said, “I am thirsty.”
 29. now a vessel full of vinegar was set there; so they put a sponge full of the vinegar on hyssop, and held it at his mouth.
 30. When Jesus so basically had received the vinegar, he said, “It is finished.” He bowed his head, and gave up his spirit.
 31. so basically the Jews, cuz it was the Preparation Day, so that the bodies wouldn’t remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a special one), asked of Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away.
 32. so basically the soldiers came, and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who was crucified with him;
 33. but when they came to Jesus, and checked out that he was already dead, they didn’t break his legs.
 34. but like one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out.
 35. He who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true. He knows that he tells the truth, that you may believe.
 36. For these things happened, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, “A bone of him will not be broken.”
 37. Again another Scripture says, “They will look on him whom they pierced.”
 38. After these things, Joseph of Arimathaea, being a Jesus' crew of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked of Pilate that he might grab away Jesus’ body. Pilate gave him permission. He came so basically and took away his body.
 39. Nicodemus, who at first came to Jesus by night, also came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred Roman pounds.
 40. So they took Jesus’ body, and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as the custom of the Jews is to bury.
 41. now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden. In the garden was a new tomb in which no man had ever yet been laid.
 42. then cuz of the Jews’ Preparation Day (for the tomb was near at hand) they laid Jesus there.

# John Chapter 20

  1. now on the day one of the week, Mary Magdalene went early, while it was still dark, to the tomb, and checked out the stone taken away from the tomb.
  2. so basically she ran and came to Simon Peter, and to the other Jesus' crew whom Jesus loved, and said to them, “They have taken away the boss out of the tomb, and we don’t get it where they have laid him!”
  3. so basically Peter and the other Jesus' crew went out, and they went toward the tomb.
  4. They both ran together. The other Jesus' crew outran Peter, and came to the tomb first.
  5. Stooping and looking in, he checked out the linen cloths lying, yet he didn’t enter in.
  6. then Simon Peter came, following him, and entered into the tomb. He checked out the linen cloths lying,
  7. and the cloth that had been on his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but rolled up in a place by itself.
  8. So then the other Jesus' crew who came first to the tomb also entered in, and he checked out and believed.
  9. For as yet they didn’t get it the Scripture, that he must rise from the dead.
 10. So the disciples went away again to their own homes.
 11. But Mary was standing outside at the tomb weeping. So, as she wept, she stooped and looked into the tomb,
 12. and she checked out two angels in white sitting, one at the head, and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.
 13. They told her, “Woman, why are you weeping?” She said to them, “cuz they have taken away my boss, and I don’t get it where they have laid him.”
 14. When she had said this, she turned around and checked out Jesus standing, and didn’t get it that it was Jesus.
 15. Jesus said to her, “Woman, why are you weeping? Who are you looking for?” She, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, “Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will grab him away.”
 16. Jesus said to her, “Mary.” She turned and said to him, “Rabboni!” which is to say, “Teacher!”
 17. Jesus said to her, “Don’t hold me, for I haven’t yet ascended to my Father; but slide to my brothers, and tell them, ‘I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God.’”
 18. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the boss, and that he had said these things to her.
 19. When so basically it was evening, on that day, the day one of the week, and when the doors were locked where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and said to them, “Peace be to you.”
 20. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. The disciples so basically were glad when they checked out the boss.
 21. Jesus so basically said to them again, “Peace be to you. As the Father has sent me, even so I send you.”
 22. When he had said this, he breathed on them, and said to them, “Receive the set apart Spirit!
 23. If you forgive anyone’s sins, they have been forgiven them. If you retain anyone’s sins, they have been retained.”
 24. But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, wasn’t with them when Jesus came.
 25. The other disciples so basically said to him, “We have seen the boss!” But he said to them, “Unless I check it out in his hands the print of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe.”
 26. After eight days again his disciples were inside, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came, the doors being locked, and stood in the midst, and said, “Peace be to you.”
 27. then he said to Thomas, “Reach here your finger, and check it out my hands. Reach here your hand, and put it into my side. Don’t be unbelieving, but believing.”
 28. Thomas answered him, “My boss and my God!”
 29. Jesus said to him, “cuz you have seen me, you have believed. blessed up are those who have not seen, and have believed.”
 30. so basically Jesus did a lot other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book;
 31. but these are written, that you may believe that Jesus is the anointed one, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name.

# John Chapter 21

  1. After these things, Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias. He revealed himself this way.
  2. Simon Peter, Thomas called Didymus, Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together.
  3. Simon Peter said to them, “I’m going fishing.” They told him, “We are also coming with you.” They immediately went out, and entered into the boat. That night, they caught nothing.
  4. But when day had already come through, Jesus stood on the beach, yet the disciples didn’t get it that it was Jesus.
  5. Jesus so basically said to them, “Children, have you anything to eat?” They answered him, “No.”
  6. He said to them, “Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some.” They cast it so basically, and now they weren’t able to draw it in for the multitude of fish.
  7. That Jesus' crew so basically whom Jesus loved said to Peter, “It’s the boss!” So when Simon Peter heard that it was the boss, he wrapped his coat around him (for he was naked), and threw himself into the sea.
  8. But the other disciples came in the little boat (for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits away), dragging the net full of fish.
  9. So when they got out on the land, they checked out a fire of coals there, and fish laid on it, and bread.
 10. Jesus said to them, “Bring some of the fish which you have just caught.”
 11. Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land, full of major fish, one hundred fifty-three; and even though there were so a lot, the net wasn’t torn.
 12. Jesus said to them, “come through and eat breakfast.” None of the disciples dared inquire of him, “Who are you?” knowing that it was the boss.
 13. then Jesus came and took the bread, gave it to them, and the fish likewise.
 14. This is now the third time that Jesus was revealed to his disciples, after he had risen from the dead.
 15. So when they had eaten their breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you show love me more than these?” He said to him, “Yes, boss; you get it that I have affection for you.” He said to him, “Feed my lambs.”
 16. He said to him again a second time, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you show love me?” He said to him, “Yes, boss; you get it that I have affection for you.” He said to him, “Tend my sheep.”
 17. He said to him the third time, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you have affection for me?” Peter was grieved cuz he asked him the third time, “Do you have affection for me?” He said to him, “boss, you get it everything. You get it that I have affection for you.” Jesus said to him, “Feed my sheep.
 18. Most for sure I tell you, when you were young, you dressed yourself, and walked where you wanted to. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you, and carry you where you don’t want to slide.”
 19. now he said this, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. When he had said this, he said to him, “roll with me.”
 20. then Peter, turning around, checked out a Jesus' crew following. This was the Jesus' crew whom Jesus sincerely loved, the one who had also leaned on Jesus’ breast at the supper and asked, “boss, who is going to betray You?”
 21. Peter seeing him, said to Jesus, “boss, what about this man?”
 22. Jesus said to him, “If I desire that he stay until I come through, what is that to you? You roll with me.”
 23. This saying so basically went out among the brothers, that this Jesus' crew wouldn’t die. Yet Jesus didn’t say to him that he wouldn’t die, but, “If I desire that he stay until I come through, what is that to you?”
 24. This is the Jesus' crew who testifies about these things, and wrote these things. We get it that his witness is true.
 25. there are also a lot other things which Jesus did, which if they would all be written, I suppose that even the world itself wouldn’t have room for the books that would be written.


JUDE
----

# Jude Chapter 1

  1. Jude, a helper of Jesus anointed one, and brother of James, to those who are called, sanctified by God the Father, and kept for Jesus anointed one:
  2. Mercy to you and peace and show love be multiplied.
  3. Beloved, while I was hella eager to write to you about our common getting saved, I was constrained to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the trusting the process which was once for all delivered to the saints.
  4. For there are certain men who crept in secretly, even those who were long ago written about for this condemnation: ungodly men, turning the God's show love of our God into indecency, and denying our only boss, God, and boss, Jesus anointed one.
  5. now I desire to remind you, though you already get it this, that the boss, having saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who didn’t believe.
  6. Angels who didn’t keep their first domain, but deserted their own dwelling place, he has kept in everlasting bonds under darkness for the judgment of the major day.
  7. Even as Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities around them, having, in the same way as these, given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh, are set forth as an example, suffering the punishment of eternal fire.
  8. Yet in the same way, these also in their dreaming defile the flesh, despise authority, and slander celestial beings.
  9. But Michael, the archangel, when contending with the devil and arguing about the body of Moses, dared not bring against him an abusive condemnation, but said, “May the boss rebuke you!”
 10. But these spill the tea evil of whatever things they don’t get it. What they understand naturally, like the creatures without reason, they are destroyed in these things.
 11. Woe to them! For they went in the way of Cain, and ran riotously in the error of Balaam for hire, and perished in Korah’s rebellion.
 12. These are hidden rocky reefs in your show love feasts when they feast with you, shepherds who without fear feed themselves; clouds without water, carried along by winds; autumn leaves without fruit, twice dead, plucked up by the roots;
 13. wild waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame; wandering stars, for whom the blackness of darkness has been reserved forever.
 14. About these also Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied, saying, “check this out, the boss came with ten thousands of his set apart ones,
 15. to execute judgment on all, and to convict all the ungodly of all their works of ungodliness which they have done in an ungodly way, and of all the hard things which ungodly sinners have spoken against him.”
 16. These are murmurers and complainers, walking after their lusts (and their mouth speaks proud things), showing respect of persons to gain advantage.
 17. But you, beloved, remember the words which have been spoken before by the apostles of our boss Jesus anointed one.
 18. They said to you that “In the last time there will be mockers, walking after their own ungodly lusts.”
 19. These are they who cause divisions, and are sensual, not having the Spirit.
 20. But you, beloved, keep building up yourselves on your most set apart trusting the process, praying in the set apart Spirit.
 21. Keep yourselves in the show love of God, looking for the mercy of our boss Jesus anointed one to living forever.
 22. On some have compassion, making a distinction,
 23. and some rescue, snatching them out of the fire with fear, hating even the clothing stained by the flesh.
 24. now to him who is able to keep them from stumbling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory in major joy,
 25. to God our Savior, who alone is smart, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and forever. facts.


LUKE
----

# Luke Chapter 1

  1. Since a lot have undertaken to set in order a narrative concerning those matters which have been fulfilled among us,
  2. even as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and servants of the word delivered them to us,
  3. it seemed fire to me also, having traced the course of all things accurately from the first, to write to you in order, most excellent Theophilus;
  4. that you might get it the certainty concerning the things in which you were instructed.
  5. there was in the days of Herod, the ruler of Judea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the priestly division of Abijah. He had a wife of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth.
  6. They were both doing what's right before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and ordinances of the boss.
  7. But they had no child, cuz Elizabeth was barren, and they both were well advanced in years.
  8. now it happened, while he executed the priest’s office before God in the order of his division,
  9. according to the custom of the priest’s office, his lot was to enter into the God's house of the boss and burn incense.
 10. The whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense.
 11. An angel of the boss appeared to him, standing on the right side of the prayer spot of incense.
 12. Zacharias was troubled when he checked out him, and fear fell upon him.
 13. But the angel said to him, “Don’t be scared, Zacharias, cuz your request has been heard, and your wife, Elizabeth, will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John.
 14. You will have joy and gladness; and a lot will be hyped at his birth.
 15. For he will be major in the sight of the boss, and he will drink no wine nor built different drink. He will be filled with the set apart Spirit, even from his mother’s womb.
 16. He will turn a lot of the children of Israel to the boss, their God.
 17. He will slide before him in the spirit and power of Elijah, ‘to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children,’ and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to prepare a people prepared for the boss.”
 18. Zacharias said to the angel, “How can I be sure of this? For I am an old man, and my wife is well advanced in years.”
 19. The angel answered him, “I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God. I was sent to spill the tea to you, and to bring you this fire news.
 20. check this out, you will be silent and not able to spill the tea, until the day that these things will happen, cuz you didn’t believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their proper time.”
 21. The people were waiting for Zacharias, and they marveled that he delayed in the God's house.
 22. When he came out, he could not spill the tea to them, and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the God's house. He continued making signs to them, and remained mute.
 23. It happened, when the days of his service were fulfilled, he departed to his house.
 24. After these days Elizabeth, his wife, conceived, and she hid herself five months, saying,
 25. “Thus has the boss done to me in the days in which he looked at me, to grab away my reproach among men.”
 26. now in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee, named Nazareth,
 27. to a virgin pledged to be married to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. The virgin’s name was Mary.
 28. Having come through in, the angel said to her, “be hyped, you highly favored one! The boss is with you. blessed up are you among women!”
 29. But when she checked out him, she was greatly troubled at the saying, and considered what kind of salutation this might be.
 30. The angel said to her, “Don’t be scared, Mary, for you have found favor with God.
 31. check this out, you will conceive in your womb, and bring forth a son, and will call his name ‘Jesus.’
 32. He will be major, and will be called the Son of the Most High. The boss God will hook it up him the throne of his father, David,
 33. and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. there will be no end to his God's squad.”
 34. Mary said to the angel, “How can this be, seeing I am a virgin?”
 35. The angel answered her, “The set apart Spirit will come through on you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. so basically also the set apart one who is born from you will be called the Son of God.
 36. check this out, Elizabeth, your relative, also has conceived a son in her old age; and this is the sixth month with her who was called barren.
 37. For everything spoken by God is possible.”
 38. Mary said, “check this out, the handmaid of the boss; be it to me according to your word.” The angel departed from her.
 39. Mary arose in those days and went into the hill country with haste, into a city of Judah,
 40. and entered into the house of Zacharias and greeted Elizabeth.
 41. It happened, when Elizabeth heard Mary’s greeting, that the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the set apart Spirit.
 42. She called out with a loud voice, and said, “blessed up are you among women, and blessed up is the fruit of your womb!
 43. Why am I so favored, that the mother of my boss should come through to me?
 44. For check this out, when the voice of your greeting came into my ears, the baby leaped in my womb for joy!
 45. blessed up is she who believed, for there will be a fulfillment of the things which have been spoken to her from the boss!”
 46. Mary said, “My soul magnifies the boss.
 47. My spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior,
 48. for he has looked at the humble state of his handmaid. For check this out, from now on, all generations will call me blessed up.
 49. For he who is mighty has done major things for me. set apart is his name.
 50. His mercy is for generations of generations on those who fear him.
 51. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.
 52. He has put down princes from their thrones. And has exalted the lowly.
 53. He has filled the hungry with fire things. He has sent the stacked away empty.
 54. He has given help out to Israel, his helper, that he might remember mercy,
 55. As he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and his seed forever.”
 56. Mary stayed with her about three months, and then returned to her house.
 57. now the time that Elizabeth should hook it up birth was fulfilled, and she brought forth a son.
 58. Her neighbors and her relatives heard that the boss had magnified his mercy towards her, and they rejoiced with her.
 59. It happened on the eighth day, that they came to circumcise the child; and they would have called him Zacharias, after the name of the father.
 60. His mother answered, “Not so; but he will be called John.”
 61. They said to her, “there is no one among your relatives who is called by this name.”
 62. They made signs to his father, what he would have him called.
 63. He asked for a writing tablet, and wrote, “His name is John.” They all marveled.
 64. His mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue freed, and he spoke, blessing God.
 65. Fear came on all who lived around them, and all these sayings were talked about throughout all the hill country of Judea.
 66. All who heard them laid them up in their heart, saying, “What then will this child be?” The hand of the boss was with him.
 67. His father, Zacharias, was filled with the set apart Spirit, and prophesied, saying,
 68. “blessed up be the boss, the God of Israel, for he has visited and worked redemption for his people;
 69. and has raised up a horn of getting saved for us in the house of his helper David
 70. (as he spoke by the mouth of his set apart prophets who have been from of old),
 71. getting saved from our enemies, and from the hand of all who can't stand us;
 72. to show mercy towards our fathers, to remember his set apart God's promise,
 73. the oath which he spoke to Abraham, our father,
 74. to grant to us that we, being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, should help out him without fear,
 75. In holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life.
 76. And you, child, will be called a God's messenger of the Most High, for you will slide before the face of the boss to prepare his ways,
 77. to hook it up knowledge of getting saved to his people by the remission of their sins,
 78. cuz of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the dawn from on high will visit us,
 79. to shine on those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death; to guide our feet into the way of peace.”
 80. The child was growing, and becoming built different in spirit, and was in the desert until the day of his public appearance to Israel.

# Luke Chapter 2

  1. now it happened in those days, that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be enrolled.
  2. This was the first enrollment made when Quirinius was governor of Syria.
  3. All went to enroll themselves, everyone to his own city.
  4. Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, cuz he was of the house and family of David;
  5. to enroll himself with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him as wife, being pregnant.
  6. It happened, while they were there, that the day had come through that she should hook it up birth.
  7. She brought forth her firstborn son, and she wrapped him in bands of cloth, and laid him in a feeding trough, cuz there was no room for them in the inn.
  8. there were shepherds in the same country staying in the field, and keeping watch by night over their flock.
  9. check this out, an angel of the boss stood by them, and the glory of the boss shone around them, and they were terrified.
 10. The angel said to them, “Don’t be scared, for check this out, I bring you fire news of major joy which will be to all the people.
 11. For there is born to you, this day, in the city of David, a Savior, who is anointed one the boss.
 12. This is the sign to you: you will find a baby wrapped in strips of cloth, lying in a feeding trough.”
 13. Suddenly, there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly army praising God, and saying,
 14. “Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace, fire will toward men.”
 15. It happened, when the angels went away from them into the sky, that the shepherds said one to another, “Let’s slide to Bethlehem, now, and check it out this thing that has happened, which the boss has made known to us.”
 16. They came with haste, and found both Mary and Joseph, and the baby was lying in the feeding trough.
 17. When they checked out it, they publicized widely the saying which was spoken to them about this child.
 18. All who heard it wondered at the things which were spoken to them by the shepherds.
 19. But Mary kept all these sayings, pondering them in her heart.
 20. The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, just as it was told them.
 21. When eight days were fulfilled for the circumcision of the child, his name was called Jesus, which was given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
 22. When the days of their purification according to the law of Moses were fulfilled, they brought him up to Jerusalem, to present him to the boss
 23. (as it is written in the law of the boss, “Every male who opens the womb shall be called set apart to the boss”),
 24. and to offer a giving it up according to that which is said in the law of the boss, “A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.”
 25. check this out, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. This man was doing what's right and devout, looking for the consolation of Israel, and the set apart Spirit was on him.
 26. It had been revealed to him by the set apart Spirit that he should not check it out death before he had seen the boss’s anointed one.
 27. He came in the Spirit into the God's house. When the parents brought in the child, Jesus, that they might do concerning him according to the custom of the law,
 28. then he received him into his arms, and blessed up God, and said,
 29. “now you are releasing your helper, boss, according to your word, in peace;
 30. for my eyes have seen your getting saved,
 31. which you have prepared before the face of all peoples;
 32. a light for revelation to the nations, and the glory of your people Israel.”
 33. Joseph and his mother were marveling at the things which were spoken concerning him,
 34. and Simeon blessed up them, and said to Mary, his mother, “check this out, this child is set for the falling and the rising of a lot in Israel, and for a sign which is spoken against.
 35. Yes, a sword will pierce through your own soul, that the thoughts of a lot hearts may be revealed.”
 36. there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher (she was of a major age, having lived with a husband seven years from her virginity,
 37. and she had been a widow for about eighty-four years), who didn’t depart from the God's house, worshipping with fastings and petitions night and day.
 38. Coming up at that hella hour, she gave thanks to the boss, and spoke of him to all those who were looking for redemption in Jerusalem.
 39. When they had accomplished all things that were according to the law of the boss, they returned into Galilee, to their own city, Nazareth.
 40. The child was growing, and was becoming built different in spirit, being filled with wisdom, and the God's show love of God was upon him.
 41. His parents went every year to Jerusalem at the feast of the Passover.
 42. When he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the feast,
 43. and when they had fulfilled the days, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. Joseph and his mother didn’t get it it,
 44. but supposing him to be in the company, they went a day’s journey, and they looked for him among their relatives and acquaintances.
 45. When they didn’t find him, they returned to Jerusalem, looking for him.
 46. It happened after three days they found him in the God's house, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both listening to them, and asking them questions.
 47. All who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers.
 48. When they checked out him, they were astonished, and his mother said to him, “Son, why have you treated us this way? check this out, your father and I were anxiously looking for you.”
 49. He said to them, “Why were you looking for me? Didn’t you get it that I must be in my Father’s house?”
 50. They didn’t understand the saying which he spoke to them.
 51. And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth. He was subject to them, and his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.
 52. And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men.

# Luke Chapter 3

  1. now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilene,
  2. in the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John, the son of Zacharias, in the wilderness.
  3. He came into all the region around the Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for remission of sins.
  4. As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the God's messenger, “The voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘create ready the way of the boss. create his paths straight.
  5. Every valley will be filled. Every mountain and hill will be brought low. The crooked will become straight, and the rough ways smooth.
  6. All flesh will check it out God’s getting saved.’”
  7. He said so basically to the multitudes who went out to be baptized by him, “You offspring of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come through?
  8. Bring forth so basically fruits worthy of repentance, and don’t begin to say among yourselves, ‘We have Abraham for our father;’ for I tell you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones!
  9. Even now the axe also lies at the root of the trees. Every tree so basically that doesn’t bring forth fire fruit is cut down, and thrown into the fire.”
 10. The multitudes asked him, “What then must we do?”
 11. He answered them, “He who has two coats, let him hook it up to him who has none. He who has food, let him do likewise.”
 12. Tax collectors also came to be baptized, and they said to him, “Teacher, what must we do?”
 13. He said to them, “Collect no more than that which is appointed to you.”
 14. Soldiers also asked him, saying, “What about us? What must we do?” He said to them, “Extort from no one by violence, neither accuse anyone wrongfully. Be content with your wages.”
 15. As the people were in expectation, and all men reasoned in their hearts concerning John, whether perhaps he was the anointed one,
 16. John answered them all, “I facts baptize you with water, but he comes who is mightier than I, the latchet of whose sandals I am not worthy to loosen. He will baptize you in the set apart Spirit and fire,
 17. whose fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor, and will gather the wheat into his barn; but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.”
 18. then with a lot other exhortations he preached fire news to the people,
 19. but Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him for Herodias, his brother’s wife, and for all the evil things which Herod had done,
 20. added this also to them all, that he shut up John in prison.
 21. now it happened, when all the people were baptized, Jesus also had been baptized, and was praying. The sky was opened,
 22. and the set apart Spirit descended in a bodily form as a dove on him; and a voice came out of the sky, saying “You are my beloved Son. In you I am well pleased.”
 23. Jesus himself, when he began to drop knowledge, was about thirty years old, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the son of Heli,
 24. the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph,
 25. the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai,
 26. the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Joseph, the son of Judah,
 27. the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri,
 28. the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmodam, the son of Er,
 29. the son of Jose, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,
 30. the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonan, the son of Eliakim,
 31. the son of Melea, the son of Menan, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,
 32. the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon,
 33. the son of Amminadab, the son of Aram, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah,
 34. the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor,
 35. the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah,
 36. the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
 37. the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan,
 38. the son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.

# Luke Chapter 4

  1. Jesus, full of the set apart Spirit, returned from the Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness
  2. for forty days, being tempted by the devil. He ate nothing in those days. Afterward, when they were completed, he was hungry.
  3. The devil said to him, “If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread.”
  4. Jesus answered him, saying, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.’”
  5. The devil, leading him up on a high mountain, showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.
  6. The devil said to him, “I will hook it up you all this authority, and their glory, for it has been delivered to me; and I hook it up it to whomever I want.
  7. If you so basically will giving props before me, it will all be yours.”
  8. Jesus answered him, “Get behind me Satan! For it is written, ‘You shall giving props the boss your God, and you shall help out him only.’”
  9. He led him to Jerusalem, and set him on the pinnacle of the God's house, and said to him, “If you are the Son of God, cast yourself down from here,
 10. for it is written, ‘He will put his angels in charge of you, to guard you;’
 11. and, ‘On their hands they will bear you up, lest perhaps you dash your foot against a stone.’”
 12. Jesus answering, said to him, “It has been said, ‘You shall not tempt the boss your God.’”
 13. When the devil had completed every temptation, he departed from him until another time.
 14. Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee, and news about him spread through all the surrounding area.
 15. He taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all.
 16. He came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. He entered, as was his custom, into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stood up to read.
 17. The book of the God's messenger Isaiah was handed to him. He opened the book, and found the place where it was written,
 18. “The Spirit of the boss is on me, cuz he has anointed me to preach fire news to the broke. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim release to the captives, recovering of sight to the blind, to deliver those who are crushed,
 19. and to proclaim the acceptable year of the boss.”
 20. He closed the book, gave it back to the attendant, and sat down. The eyes of all in the synagogue were fastened on him.
 21. He began to tell them, “Today, this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing.”
 22. All testified about him, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth, and they said, “Isn’t this Joseph’s son?”
 23. He said to them, “Doubtless you will tell me this parable, ‘Physician, heal yourself! Whatever we have heard done at Capernaum, do also here in your hometown.’”
 24. He said, “Most for sure I tell you, no God's messenger is acceptable in his hometown.
 25. But deadass I tell you, there were a lot widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the sky was shut up three years and six months, when a major famine came over all the land.
 26. Elijah was sent to none of them, except to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow.
 27. there were a lot lepers in Israel in the time of Elisha the God's messenger, yet not one of them was cleansed, except Naaman, the Syrian.”
 28. They were all filled with wrath in the synagogue, as they heard these things.
 29. They rose up, threw him out of the city, and led him to the brow of the hill that their city was built on, that they might throw him off the cliff.
 30. But he, passing through their midst, went his way.
 31. He came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. He was teaching them on the Sabbath day,
 32. and they were astonished at his teaching, for his word was with authority.
 33. In the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice,
 34. saying, “Ah! what have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come through to tear down us? I get it you who you are: the set apart One of God!”
 35. Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be silent, and come through out of him!” When the demon had thrown him down in their midst, he came out of him, having done him no harm.
 36. Amazement came on all, and they spoke together, one with another, saying, “What is this word? For with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come through out!”
 37. News about him went out into every place of the surrounding region.
 38. He rose up from the synagogue, and entered into Simon’s house. Simon’s mother-in-law was afflicted with a major fever, and they begged him for her.
 39. He stood over her, and rebuked the fever; and it left her. Immediately she rose up and served them.
 40. When the sun was setting, all those who had any sick with various diseases brought them to him; and he laid his hands on every one of them, and healed them.
 41. Demons also came out from a lot, crying out, and saying, “You are the anointed one, the Son of God!” Rebuking them, he didn’t allow them to spill the tea, cuz they knew that he was the anointed one.
 42. When it was day, he departed and went into an uninhabited place, and the multitudes looked for him, and came to him, and held on to him, so that he wouldn’t slide away from them.
 43. But he said to them, “I must preach the fire news of the God's squad of God to the other cities also. For this reason I have been sent.”
 44. He was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee.

# Luke Chapter 5

  1. now it happened, while the multitude pressed on him and heard the word of God, that he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret.
  2. He checked out two boats standing by the lake, but the fishermen had gone out of them, and were washing their nets.
  3. He entered into one of the boats, which was Simon’s, and asked him to put out a little from the land. He sat down and taught the multitudes from the boat.
  4. When he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, “Put out into the deep, and let down your nets for a catch.”
  5. Simon answered him, “boss, we worked all night, and took nothing; but at your word I will let down the net.”
  6. When they had done this, they caught a major multitude of fish, and their net was breaking.
  7. They beckoned to their partners in the other boat, that they should come through and help out them. They came, and filled both boats, so that they began to sink.
  8. But Simon Peter, when he checked out it, fell down at Jesus’ knees, saying, “Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, boss.”
  9. For he was amazed, and all who were with him, at the catch of fish which they had caught;
 10. and so also were James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. Jesus said to Simon, “Don’t be scared. From now on you will be catching people alive.”
 11. When they had brought their boats to land, they left everything, and followed him.
 12. It happened, while he was in one of the cities, check this out, there was a man full of leprosy. When he checked out Jesus, he fell on his face, and begged him, saying, “boss, if you want to, you can create me clean.”
 13. He stretched out his hand, and touched him, saying, “I want to. Be made clean.” Immediately the leprosy left him.
 14. He commanded him to tell no one, “But slide your way, and show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing according to what Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.”
 15. But the report concerning him spread much more, and major multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their infirmities.
 16. But he withdrew himself into the desert, and prayed.
 17. It happened on one of those days, that he was teaching; and there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by, who had come through out of every village of Galilee, Judea, and Jerusalem. The power of the boss was with him to heal them.
 18. check this out, men brought a paralyzed man on a cot, and they sought to bring him in to lay before Jesus.
 19. Not finding a way to bring him in cuz of the multitude, they went up to the housetop, and let him down through the tiles with his cot into the midst before Jesus.
 20. Seeing their trusting the process, he said to him, “Man, your sins are forgiven you.”
 21. The scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, “Who is this that speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone?”
 22. But Jesus, perceiving their thoughts, answered them, “Why are you reasoning so in your hearts?
 23. Which is easier to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven you;’ or to say, ‘Arise and walk?’
 24. But that you may get it that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins” (he said to the paralyzed man), “I tell you, arise, and grab up your cot, and slide to your house.”
 25. Immediately he rose up before them, and took up that which he was laying on, and departed to his house, glorifying God.
 26. Amazement took hold on all, and they glorified God. They were filled with fear, saying, “We have seen strange things today.”
 27. After these things he went out, and checked out a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax office, and said to him, “roll with me!”
 28. He left everything, and rose up and followed him.
 29. Levi made a major feast for him in his house. there was a major crowd of tax collectors and others who were reclining with them.
 30. Their scribes and the Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, “Why do you eat and drink with the tax collectors and sinners?”
 31. Jesus answered them, “Those who are healthy have no need for a physician, but those who are sick do.
 32. I have not come through to call the doing what's right, but sinners to repentance.”
 33. They said to him, “Why do John’s disciples a lot fast and pray, likewise also the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink?”
 34. He said to them, “Can you create the friends of the bridegroom fast, while the bridegroom is with them?
 35. But the days will come through when the bridegroom will be taken away from them. then they will fast in those days.”
 36. He also told a parable to them. “No one puts a piece from a new garment on an old garment, or else he will tear the new, and also the piece from the new will not match the old.
 37. No one puts new wine into old wineskins, or else the new wine will burst the skins, and it will be spilled, and the skins will be destroyed.
 38. But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved.
 39. No man having drunk old wine immediately desires new, for he says, ‘The old is better.’”

# Luke Chapter 6

  1. now it happened on the second Sabbath after the first, that he was going through the grain fields. His disciples plucked the heads of grain, and ate, rubbing them in their hands.
  2. But some of the Pharisees said to them, “Why do you do that which is not lawful to do on the Sabbath day?”
  3. Jesus, answering them, said, “Haven’t you read what David did when he was hungry, he, and those who were with him;
  4. how he entered into the house of God, and took and ate the show bread, and gave also to those who were with him, which is not lawful to eat except for the priests alone?”
  5. He said to them, “The Son of Man is boss of the Sabbath.”
  6. It also happened on another Sabbath that he entered into the synagogue and taught. there was a man there, and his right hand was withered.
  7. The scribes and the Pharisees watched him, to check it out whether he would heal on the Sabbath, that they might find an accusation against him.
  8. But he knew their thoughts; and he said to the man who had the withered hand, “Rise up, and stand in the middle.” He arose and stood.
  9. then Jesus said to them, “I will ask you something: Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do fire, or to do harm? To rescue a life, or to kill?”
 10. He looked around at them all, and said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He did, and his hand was restored as sound as the other.
 11. But they were filled with rage, and talked with one another about what they might do to Jesus.
 12. It happened in these days, that he went out to the mountain to pray, and he continued all night in talking to God to God.
 13. When it was day, he called his disciples, and from them he chose twelve, whom he also named apostles:
 14. Simon, whom he also named Peter; Andrew, his brother; James; John; Philip; Bartholomew;
 15. Matthew; Thomas; James, the son of Alphaeus; Simon, who was called the Zealot;
 16. Judas the son of James; and Judas Iscariot, who also became a traitor.
 17. He came down with them, and stood on a level place, with a crowd of his disciples, and a major number of the people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear him and to be healed of their diseases;
 18. as well as those who were troubled by unclean spirits, and they were being healed.
 19. All the multitude sought to touch him, for power came out from him and healed them all.
 20. He lifted up his eyes to his disciples, and said, “blessed up are you who are broke, for yours is the God's squad of God.
 21. blessed up are you who hunger now, for you will be filled. blessed up are you who weep now, for you will laugh.
 22. blessed up are you when men shall can't stand you, and when they shall exclude and mock you, and throw out your name as evil, for the Son of Man’s sake.
 23. be hyped in that day, and leap for joy, for check this out, your reward is major in heaven, for their fathers did the same thing to the prophets.
 24. “But woe to you who are stacked! For you have received your consolation.
 25. Woe to you, you who are full now, for you will be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, for you will mourn and weep.
 26. Woe, when men spill the tea well of you, for their fathers did the same thing to the false prophets.
 27. “But I tell you who hear: show love your enemies, do fire to those who can't stand you,
 28. bless those who curse you, and pray for those who mistreat you.
 29. To him who strikes you on the cheek, offer also the other; and from him who takes away your cloak, don’t withhold your coat also.
 30. hook it up to everyone who asks you, and don’t ask him who takes away your goods to hook it up them back again.
 31. “As you would like people to do to you, do exactly so to them.
 32. If you show love those who show love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners show love those who show love them.
 33. If you do fire to those who do fire to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same.
 34. If you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to receive back as much.
 35. But show love your enemies, and do fire, and lend, expecting nothing back; and your reward will be major, and you will be children of the Most High; for he is kind toward the unthankful and evil.
 36. so basically be merciful, even as your Father is also merciful.
 37. Don’t judge, and you won’t be judged. Don’t condemn, and you won’t be condemned. Set free, and you will be set free.
 38. “hook it up, and it will be given to you: fire measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, will be given to you. For with the same measure you measure it will be measured back to you.”
 39. He spoke a parable to them. “Can the blind guide the blind? Won’t they both fall into a pit?
 40. A Jesus' crew is not above his teacher, but everyone when he is fully trained will be like his teacher.
 41. Why do you check it out the speck of chaff that is in your brother’s eye, but don’t consider the beam that is in your own eye?
 42. Or how can you tell your brother, ‘Brother, let me remove the speck of chaff that is in your eye,’ when you yourself don’t check it out the beam that is in your own eye? You hypocrite! First remove the beam from your own eye, and then you can check it out clearly to remove the speck of chaff that is in your brother’s eye.
 43. For there is no fire tree that brings forth rotten fruit; nor again a rotten tree that brings forth fire fruit.
 44. For each tree is known by its own fruit. For people don’t gather figs from thorns, nor do they gather grapes from a bramble bush.
 45. The fire man out of the fire treasure of his heart brings out that which is fire, and the evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart brings out that which is evil, for out of the abundance of the heart, his mouth speaks.
 46. “Why do you call me, ‘boss, boss,’ and don’t do the things which I say?
 47. Everyone who comes to me, and hears my words, and does them, I will show you who he is like.
 48. He is like a man building a house, who dug and went deep, and laid a foundation on the rock. When a flood arose, the stream broke against that house, and could not shake it, cuz it was founded on the rock.
 49. But he who hears, and doesn’t do, is like a man who built a house on the earth without a foundation, against which the stream broke, and immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was major.”

# Luke Chapter 7

  1. After he had finished speaking in the hearing of the people, he entered into Capernaum.
  2. A certain centurion’s helper, who was dear to him, was sick and at the point of death.
  3. When he heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come through and rescue his helper.
  4. When they came to Jesus, they begged him earnestly, saying, “He is worthy for you to do this for him,
  5. for he loves our nation, and he built our synagogue for us.”
  6. Jesus went with them. When he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying to him, “boss, don’t trouble yourself, for I am not worthy for you to come through under my roof.
  7. so basically I didn’t even think myself worthy to come through to you; but say the word, and my helper will be healed.
  8. For I also am a man placed under authority, having under myself soldiers. I tell this one, ‘slide!’ and he goes; and to another, ‘come through!’ and he comes; and to my helper, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”
  9. When Jesus heard these things, he marveled at him, and turned and said to the multitude who followed him, “I tell you, I have not found such major trusting the process, no, not in Israel.”
 10. Those who were sent, returning to the house, found that the helper who had been sick was well.
 11. It happened soon afterwards, that he went to a city called Nain. a lot of his disciples, along with a major multitude, went with him.
 12. now when he drew near to the gate of the city, check this out, one who was dead was carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. a lot people of the city were with her.
 13. When the boss checked out her, he had compassion on her, and said to her, “Don’t cry.”
 14. He came near and touched the coffin, and the bearers stood still. He said, “Young man, I tell you, arise!”
 15. He who was dead sat up, and began to spill the tea. And he gave him to his mother.
 16. Fear took hold of all, and they glorified God, saying, “A major God's messenger has arisen among us!” and, “God has visited his people!”
 17. This report went out concerning him in the whole of Judea, and in all the surrounding region.
 18. The disciples of John told him about all these things.
 19. John, calling to himself two of his disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying, “Are you the one who is coming, or should we look for another?”
 20. When the men had come through to him, they said, “John the Baptizer has sent us to you, saying, ‘Are you he who comes, or should we look for another?’”
 21. In that hour he cured a lot of diseases and plagues and evil spirits; and to a lot who were blind he gave sight.
 22. Jesus answered them, “slide and tell John the things which you have seen and heard: that the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the broke have fire news preached to them.
 23. blessed up is he who finds no occasion for stumbling in me.”
 24. When John’s messengers had departed, he began to tell the multitudes about John, “What did you slide out into the wilderness to check it out? A reed shaken by the wind?
 25. But what did you slide out to check it out? A man clothed in soft clothing? check this out, those who are gorgeously dressed, and live delicately, are in kings’ courts.
 26. But what did you slide out to check it out? A God's messenger? Yes, I tell you, and much more than a God's messenger.
 27. This is he of whom it is written, ‘check this out, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.’
 28. “For I tell you, among those who are born of women there is not a greater God's messenger than John the Baptizer, yet he who is least in the God's squad of God is greater than he.”
 29. When all the people and the tax collectors heard this, they declared God to be just, having been baptized with John’s baptism.
 30. But the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the counsel of God, not being baptized by him themselves.
 31. “To what then will I liken the people of this generation? What are they like?
 32. They are like children who sit in the marketplace, and call one to another, saying, ‘We piped to you, and you didn’t dance. We mourned, and you didn’t weep.’
 33. For John the Baptizer came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon.’
 34. The Son of Man has come through eating and drinking, and you say, ‘check this out, a gluttonous man, and a drunkard; a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’
 35. Wisdom is justified by all her children.”
 36. One of the Pharisees invited him to eat with him. He entered into the Pharisee’s house, and sat at the table.
 37. check this out, a woman in the city who was a sinner, when she knew that he was reclining in the Pharisee’s house, she brought an alabaster jar of ointment.
 38. Standing behind at his feet weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears, and she wiped them with the hair of her head, kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment.
 39. now when the Pharisee who had invited him checked out it, he said to himself, “This man, if he were a God's messenger, would have perceived who and what kind of woman this is who touches him, that she is a sinner.”
 40. Jesus answered him, “Simon, I have something to tell you.” He said, “Teacher, say on.”
 41. “A certain lender had two debtors. The one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
 42. When they couldn’t pay, he forgave them both. Which of them so basically will show love him most?”
 43. Simon answered, “He, I suppose, to whom he forgave the most.” He said to him, “You have judged correctly.”
 44. Turning to the woman, he said to Simon, “Do you check it out this woman? I entered into your house, and you gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head.
 45. You gave me no kiss, but she, since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss my feet.
 46. You didn’t anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment.
 47. so basically I tell you, her sins, which are a lot, are forgiven, for she loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little.”
 48. He said to her, “Your sins are forgiven.”
 49. Those who sat at the table with him began to say to themselves, “Who is this who even forgives sins?”
 50. He said to the woman, “Your trusting the process has saved you. slide in peace.”

# Luke Chapter 8

  1. It happened soon afterwards, that he went about through cities and villages, preaching and bringing the fire news of the God's squad of God. With him were the twelve,
  2. and certain women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary who was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out;
  3. and Joanna, the wife of Chuzas, Herod’s steward; Susanna; and a lot others; who served them from their possessions.
  4. When a major multitude came together, and people from every city were coming to him, he spoke by a parable.
  5. “The farmer went out to sow his seed. As he sowed, some fell along the road, and it was trampled under foot, and the birds of the sky devoured it.
  6. Other seed fell on the rock, and as soon as it grew, it withered away, cuz it had no moisture.
  7. Other fell amid the thorns, and the thorns grew with it, and choked it.
  8. Other fell into the fire ground, and grew, and brought forth fruit one hundred times.” As he said these things, he called out, “He who has ears to hear, let him hear!”
  9. then his disciples asked him, “What does this parable mean?”
 10. He said, “To you it is given to get it the mysteries of the God's squad of God, but to the rest in parables; that ‘seeing they may not check it out, and hearing they may not understand.’
 11. now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.
 12. Those along the road are those who hear, then the devil comes, and takes away the word from their heart, that they may not believe and be saved.
 13. Those on the rock are they who, when they hear, receive the word with joy; but these have no root, who believe for a while, then fall away in time of temptation.
 14. That which fell among the thorns, these are those who have heard, and as they slide on their way they are choked with cares, riches, and pleasures of life, and bring no fruit to maturity.
 15. That in the fire ground, these are such as in an honest and fire heart, having heard the word, hold it tightly, and bring forth fruit with patience.
 16. “No one, when he has lit a lamp, covers it with a container, or puts it under a bed; but puts it on a stand, that those who enter in may check it out the light.
 17. For nothing is hidden, that will not be revealed; nor anything secret, that will not be known and come through to light.
 18. Be careful so basically how you hear. For whoever has, to him will be given; and whoever doesn’t have, from him will be taken away even that which he thinks he has.”
 19. His mother and brothers came to him, and they could not come through near him for the crowd.
 20. It was told him by some saying, “Your mother and your brothers stand outside, desiring to check it out you.”
 21. But he answered them, “My mother and my brothers are these who hear the word of God, and do it.”
 22. now it happened on one of those days, that he entered into a boat, himself and his disciples, and he said to them, “Let’s slide over to the other side of the lake.” So they launched out.
 23. But as they sailed, he fell asleep. A wind storm came down on the lake, and they were taking on dangerous amounts of water.
 24. They came to him, and awoke him, saying, “boss, boss, we are dying!” He awoke, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and it was calm.
 25. He said to them, “Where is your trusting the process?” Being scared they marveled, saying one to another, “Who is this, then, that he commands even the winds and the water, and they obey him?”
 26. They arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is opposite Galilee.
 27. When Jesus stepped ashore, a certain man out of the city who had demons for a long time met him. He wore no clothes, and didn’t live in a house, but in the tombs.
 28. When he checked out Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, “What do I have to do with you, Jesus, you Son of the Most High God? I beg you, don’t torment me!”
 29. For Jesus was commanding the unclean spirit to come through out of the man. For the unclean spirit had a lot seized the man. He was kept under guard, and bound with chains and fetters. Breaking the bands apart, he was driven by the demon into the desert.
 30. Jesus asked him, “What is your name?” He said, “Legion,” for a lot demons had entered into him.
 31. They begged him that he would not command them to slide into the abyss.
 32. now there was there a herd of a lot pigs feeding on the mountain, and they begged him that he would allow them to enter into those. He allowed them.
 33. The demons came out from the man, and entered into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake, and were drowned.
 34. When those who fed them checked out what had happened, they fled, and told it in the city and in the country.
 35. People went out to check it out what had happened. They came to Jesus, and found the man from whom the demons had gone out, sitting at Jesus’ feet, clothed and in his right mind; and they were scared.
 36. Those who checked out it told them how he who had been possessed by demons was healed.
 37. All the people of the surrounding country of the Gadarenes asked him to depart from them, for they were hella much scared. He entered into the boat, and returned.
 38. But the man from whom the demons had gone out begged him that he might slide with him, but Jesus sent him away, saying,
 39. “Return to your house, and declare what major things God has done for you.” He went his way, proclaiming throughout the whole city what major things Jesus had done for him.
 40. It happened, when Jesus returned, that the multitude welcomed him, for they were all waiting for him.
 41. check this out, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue. He fell down at Jesus’ feet, and begged him to come through into his house,
 42. for he had an only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she was dying. But as he went, the multitudes pressed against him.
 43. A woman who had a flow of blood for twelve years, who had spent all her living on physicians, and could not be healed by any,
 44. came behind him, and touched the fringe of his cloak, and immediately the flow of her blood stopped.
 45. Jesus said, “Who touched me?” When all denied it, Peter and those with him said, “boss, the multitudes press and jostle you, and you say, ‘Who touched me?’”
 46. But Jesus said, “Someone did touch me, for I perceived that power has gone out of me.”
 47. When the woman checked out that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and falling down before him declared to him in the presence of all the people the reason why she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately.
 48. He said to her, “Daughter, cheer up. Your trusting the process has made you well. slide in peace.”
 49. While he still spoke, one from the ruler of the synagogue’s house came, saying to him, “Your daughter is dead. Don’t trouble the Teacher.”
 50. But Jesus hearing it, answered him, “Don’t be scared. Only believe, and she will be healed.”
 51. When he came to the house, he didn’t allow anyone to enter in, except Peter, John, James, the father of the child, and her mother.
 52. All were weeping and mourning her, but he said, “Don’t weep. She isn’t dead, but sleeping.”
 53. They were ridiculing him, knowing that she was dead.
 54. But he put them all outside, and taking her by the hand, he called, saying, “Child, arise!”
 55. Her spirit returned, and she rose up immediately. He commanded that something be given to her to eat.
 56. Her parents were amazed, but he commanded them to tell no one what had been done.

# Luke Chapter 9

  1. He called the twelve together, and gave them power and authority over all demons, and to cure diseases.
  2. He sent them forth to preach the God's squad of God, and to heal the sick.
  3. He said to them, “grab nothing for your journey—neither staffs, nor wallet, nor bread, nor money; neither have two coats apiece.
  4. Into whatever house you enter, stay there, and depart from there.
  5. As a lot as don’t receive you, when you depart from that city, shake off even the dust from your feet for a testimony against them.”
  6. They departed, and went throughout the villages, preaching the fire News, and healing everywhere.
  7. now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him; and he was hella perplexed, cuz it was said by some that John had risen from the dead,
  8. and by some that Elijah had appeared, and by others that one of the old prophets had risen again.
  9. Herod said, “John I beheaded, but who is this, about whom I hear such things?” He sought to check it out him.
 10. The apostles, when they had returned, told him what things they had done. He took them, and withdrew apart to a deserted place of a city called Bethsaida.
 11. But the multitudes, perceiving it, followed him. He welcomed them, and spoke to them of the God's squad of God, and he cured those who needed healing.
 12. The day began to wear away; and the twelve came, and said to him, “Send the multitude away, that they may slide into the surrounding villages and farms, and lodge, and get food, for we are here in a deserted place.”
 13. But he said to them, “You hook it up them something to eat.” They said, “We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless we should slide and buy food for all these people.”
 14. For they were about five thousand men. He said to his disciples, “create them sit down in groups of about fifty each.”
 15. They did so, and made them all sit down.
 16. He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to the sky, he blessed up them, and broke them, and gave them to the disciples to set before the multitude.
 17. They ate, and were all filled. They gathered up twelve baskets of broken pieces that were left over.
 18. It happened, as he was praying alone, that the disciples were with him, and he asked them, “Who do the multitudes say that I am?”
 19. They answered, “‘John the Baptizer,’ but others say, ‘Elijah,’ and others, that one of the old prophets is risen again.”
 20. He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?” Peter answered, “The anointed one of God.”
 21. But he warned them, and commanded them to tell this to no one,
 22. saying, “The Son of Man must suffer a lot things, and be rejected by the elders, chief priests, and scribes, and be killed, and the day three be raised up.”
 23. He said to all, “If anyone desires to come through after me, let him deny himself, grab up his cross, and roll with me.
 24. For whoever desires to rescue his life will lose it, but whoever will lose his life for my sake, the same will rescue it.
 25. For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world, and loses or forfeits his own self?
 26. For whoever will be ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed, when he comes in his glory, and the glory of the Father, and of the set apart angels.
 27. But I tell you the truth: there are some of those who stand here, who will in no way taste of death, until they check it out the God's squad of God.”
 28. It happened about eight days after these sayings, that he took with him Peter, John, and James, and went up onto the mountain to pray.
 29. As he was praying, the appearance of his face was altered, and his clothing became white and dazzling.
 30. check this out, two men were talking with him, who were Moses and Elijah,
 31. who appeared in glory, and spoke of his departure, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem.
 32. now Peter and those who were with him were heavy with sleep, but when they were fully awake, they checked out his glory, and the two men who stood with him.
 33. It happened, as they were parting from him, that Peter said to Jesus, “boss, it is fire for us to be here. Let’s create three tents: one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah,” not knowing what he said.
 34. While he said these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them, and they were scared as they entered into the cloud.
 35. A voice came out of the cloud, saying, “This is my beloved Son. listen up to him!”
 36. When the voice came, Jesus was found alone. They were silent, and told no one in those days any of the things which they had seen.
 37. It happened on the next day, when they had come through down from the mountain, that a major multitude met him.
 38. check this out, a man from the crowd called out, saying, “Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only child.
 39. check this out, a spirit takes him, he suddenly cries out, and it convulses him so that he foams, and it hardly departs from him, bruising him severely.
 40. I begged your disciples to cast it out, and they couldn’t.”
 41. Jesus answered, “Faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here.”
 42. While he was still coming, the demon threw him down and convulsed him violently. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the boy, and gave him back to his father.
 43. They were all astonished at the majesty of God. But while all were marveling at all the things which Jesus did, he said to his disciples,
 44. “Let these words sink into your ears, for the Son of Man will be delivered up into the hands of men.”
 45. But they didn’t understand this saying. It was concealed from them, that they should not perceive it, and they were scared to ask him about this saying.
 46. there arose an argument among them about which of them was the greatest.
 47. Jesus, perceiving the reasoning of their hearts, took a little child, and set him by his side,
 48. and said to them, “Whoever receives this little child in my name receives me. Whoever receives me receives him who sent me. For whoever is least among you all, this one will be major.”
 49. John answered, “boss, we checked out someone casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him, cuz he doesn’t roll with with us.”
 50. Jesus said to him, “Don’t forbid him, for he who is not against us is for us.”
 51. It came to pass, when the days were near that he should be taken up, he intently set his face to slide to Jerusalem,
 52. and sent messengers before his face. They went, and entered into a village of the Samaritans, so as to prepare for him.
 53. They didn’t receive him, cuz he was traveling with his face set towards Jerusalem.
 54. When his disciples, James and John, checked out this, they said, “boss, do you want us to command fire to come through down from the sky, and tear down them, just as Elijah did?”
 55. But he turned and rebuked them, “You don’t get it of what kind of spirit you are.
 56. For the Son of Man didn’t come through to tear down men’s lives, but to rescue them.” They went to another village.
 57. As they went on the way, a certain man said to him, “I want to roll with you wherever you slide, boss.”
 58. Jesus said to him, “The foxes have holes, and the birds of the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head.”
 59. He said to another, “roll with me!” But he said, “boss, allow me first to slide and bury my father.”
 60. But Jesus said to him, “Leave the dead to bury their own dead, but you slide and announce the God's squad of God.”
 61. Another also said, “I want to roll with you, boss, but first allow me to say fire-bye to those who are at my house.”
 62. But Jesus said to him, “No one, having put his hand to the plow, and looking back, is fit for the God's squad of God.”

# Luke Chapter 10

  1. now after these things, the boss also appointed seventy others, and sent them two by two ahead of him into every city and place, where he was about to come through.
  2. then he said to them, “The harvest is facts plentiful, but the laborers are not much. Pray so basically to the boss of the harvest, that he may send out laborers into his harvest.
  3. slide your ways. check this out, I send you out as lambs among wolves.
  4. Carry no purse, nor wallet, nor sandals. Greet no one on the way.
  5. Into whatever house you enter, first say, ‘Peace be to this house.’
  6. If a son of peace is there, your peace will rest on him; but if not, it will return to you.
  7. Remain in that same house, eating and drinking the things they hook it up, for the laborer is worthy of his wages. Don’t slide from house to house.
  8. Into whatever city you enter, and they receive you, eat the things that are set before you.
  9. Heal the sick who are therein, and tell them, ‘The God's squad of God has come through near to you.’
 10. But into whatever city you enter, and they don’t receive you, slide out into its streets and say,
 11. ‘Even the dust from your city that clings to us, we wipe off against you. Nevertheless get it this, that the God's squad of God has come through near to you.’
 12. I tell you, it will be more tolerable in that day for Sodom than for that city.
 13. “Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon which were done in you, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
 14. But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you.
 15. You, Capernaum, who are exalted to heaven, will be brought down to Hades.
 16. Whoever listens to you listens to me, and whoever rejects you rejects me. Whoever rejects me rejects him who sent me.”
 17. The seventy returned with joy, saying, “boss, even the demons are subject to us in your name!”
 18. He said to them, “I checked out Satan having fallen like lightning from heaven.
 19. check this out, I hook it up you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy. Nothing will in any way hurt you.
 20. Nevertheless, don’t be hyped in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but be hyped that your names are written in heaven.”
 21. In that same hour Jesus rejoiced in the set apart Spirit, and said, “I thank you, O Father, boss of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the smart and understanding, and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for so it was well-pleasing in your sight.”
 22. Turning to the disciples, he said, “All things have been delivered to me by my Father. No one knows who the Son is, except the Father, and who the Father is, except the Son, and he to whomever the Son desires to reveal him.”
 23. Turning to the disciples, he said privately, “blessed up are the eyes which check it out the things that you check it out,
 24. for I tell you that a lot prophets and kings desired to check it out the things which you check it out, and didn’t check it out them, and to hear the things which you hear, and didn’t hear them.”
 25. check this out, a certain lawyer stood up and tested him, saying, “Teacher, what shall I do to inherit living forever?”
 26. He said to him, “What is written in the law? How do you read it?”
 27. He answered, “You shall show love the boss your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind; and your neighbor as yourself.”
 28. He said to him, “You have answered correctly. Do this, and you will live.”
 29. But he, desiring to justify himself, asked Jesus, “Who is my neighbor?”
 30. Jesus answered, “A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who both stripped him and beat him, and departed, leaving him half dead.
 31. By chance a certain priest was going down that way. When he checked out him, he passed by on the other side.
 32. In the same way a Levite also, when he came to the place, and checked out him, passed by on the other side.
 33. But a certain Samaritan, as he traveled, came where he was. When he checked out him, he was moved with compassion,
 34. came to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. He set him on his own animal, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him.
 35. On the next day, when he departed, he took out two denarii, and gave them to the host, and said to him, ‘grab care of him. Whatever you spend beyond that, I will repay you when I return.’
 36. now which of these three do you think seemed to be a neighbor to him who fell among the robbers?”
 37. He said, “He who showed mercy on him.” then Jesus said to him, “slide and do likewise.”
 38. It happened as they went on their way, he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.
 39. She had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus’ feet, and heard his word.
 40. But Martha was distracted with much serving, and she came up to him, and said, “boss, don’t you care that my sister left me to help out alone? Ask her so basically to help out me.”
 41. Jesus answered her, “Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about a lot things,
 42. but one thing is needed. Mary has chosen the fire part, which will not be taken away from her.”

# Luke Chapter 11

  1. It happened, that when he finished praying in a certain place, one of his disciples said to him, “boss, drop knowledge us to pray, just as John also taught his disciples.”
  2. He said to them, “When you pray, say, ‘Our Father in heaven, may your name be kept set apart. May your God's squad come through. May your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven.
  3. hook it up us day by day our daily bread.
  4. Forgive us our sins, for we ourselves also forgive everyone who is indebted to us. Bring us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one.’”
  5. He said to them, “Which of you, if you slide to a friend at midnight, and tell him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves of bread,
  6. for a friend of mine has come through to me from a journey, and I have nothing to set before him,’
  7. and he from within will answer and say, ‘Don’t bother me. The door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I can’t get up and hook it up it to you’?
  8. I tell you, although he will not rise and hook it up it to him cuz he is his friend, yet cuz of his persistence, he will get up and hook it up him as a lot as he needs.
  9. “I tell you, keep asking, and it will be given you. Keep seeking, and you will find. Keep knocking, and it will be opened to you.
 10. For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. To him who knocks it will be opened.
 11. “Which of you fathers, if your son asks for bread, will hook it up him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, he won’t hook it up him a snake instead of a fish, will he?
 12. Or if he asks for an egg, he won’t hook it up him a scorpion, will he?
 13. If you then, being evil, get it how to hook it up fire gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father hook it up the set apart Spirit to those who ask him?”
 14. He was casting out a demon, and it was mute. It happened, when the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke; and the multitudes marveled.
 15. But some of them said, “He casts out demons by Beelzebul, the prince of the demons.”
 16. Others, testing him, sought from him a sign from heaven.
 17. But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, “Every God's squad divided against itself is brought to desolation. A house divided against itself falls.
 18. If Satan also is divided against himself, how will his God's squad stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebul.
 19. But if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your children cast them out? so basically will they be your judges.
 20. But if I by the finger of God cast out demons, then the God's squad of God has come through to you.
 21. “When the built different man, fully armed, guards his own dwelling, his goods are safe.
 22. But when someone stronger attacks him and overcomes him, he takes from him his whole armor in which he trusted, and divides his spoils.
 23. “He that is not with me is against me. He who doesn’t gather with me scatters.
 24. The unclean spirit, when he has gone out of the man, passes through dry places, seeking rest, and finding none, he says, ‘I will turn back to my house from which I came out.’
 25. When he returns, he finds it swept and put in order.
 26. then he goes, and takes seven other spirits more evil than himself, and they enter in and dwell there. The last state of that man becomes worse than the first.”
 27. It came to pass, as he said these things, a certain woman out of the multitude lifted up her voice, and said to him, “blessed up is the womb that bore you, and the breasts which nursed you!”
 28. But he said, “On the contrary, blessed up are those who hear the word of God, and keep it.”
 29. When the multitudes were gathering together to him, he began to say, “This is an evil generation. It seeks after a sign. No sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah, the God's messenger.
 30. For even as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so will also the Son of Man be to this generation.
 31. The ruler of the South will rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation, and will condemn them: for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and check this out, one greater than Solomon is here.
 32. The men of Nineveh will stand up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it: for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and check this out, one greater than Jonah is here.
 33. “No one, when he has lit a lamp, puts it in a cellar or under a basket, but on a stand, that those who come through in may check it out the light.
 34. The lamp of the body is the eye. so basically when your eye is fire, your whole body is also full of light; but when it is evil, your body also is full of darkness.
 35. so basically check it out whether the light that is in you isn’t darkness.
 36. If so basically your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, it will be wholly full of light, as when the lamp with its bright shining gives you light.”
 37. now as he spoke, a certain Pharisee asked him to dine with him. He went in, and sat at the table.
 38. When the Pharisee checked out it, he marveled that he had not first washed himself before dinner.
 39. The boss said to him, “now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the platter, but your inward part is full of extortion and wickedness.
 40. You dumb ones, didn’t he who made the outside create the inside also?
 41. But hook it up for gifts to the needy those things which are within, and check this out, all things will be clean to you.
 42. But woe to you Pharisees! For you tithe mint and rue and every herb, but you bypass justice and the show love of God. You ought to have done these, and not to have left the other undone.
 43. Woe to you Pharisees! For you show love the best seats in the synagogues, and the greetings in the marketplaces.
 44. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like hidden graves, and the men who walk over them don’t get it it.”
 45. One of the lawyers answered him, “Teacher, in saying this you insult us also.”
 46. He said, “Woe to you lawyers also! For you load men with burdens that are difficult to carry, and you yourselves won’t even lift one finger to help out carry those burdens.
 47. Woe to you! For you put together the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them.
 48. So you testify and consent to the works of your fathers. For they killed them, and you put together their tombs.
 49. so basically also the wisdom of God was like, ‘I will send to them prophets and apostles; and some of them they will kill and persecute,
 50. that the blood of all the prophets, which was shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation;
 51. from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zachariah, who perished between the prayer spot and the sanctuary.’ Yes, I tell you, it will be required of this generation.
 52. Woe to you lawyers! For you took away the key of knowledge. You didn’t enter in yourselves, and those who were entering in, you hindered.”
 53. As he said these things to them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to be terribly mad salty, and to draw a lot things out of him;
 54. lying in wait for him, and seeking to catch him in something he might say, that they might accuse him.

# Luke Chapter 12

  1. Meanwhile, when a multitude of a lot thousands had gathered together, so much so that they trampled on each other, he began to tell his disciples first of all, “Beware of the yeast of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
  2. But there is nothing covered up, that will not be revealed, nor hidden, that will not be known.
  3. so basically whatever you have said in the darkness will be heard in the light. What you have spoken in the ear in the inner rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops.
  4. “I tell you, my friends, don’t be scared of those who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do.
  5. But I will warn you whom you should fear. Fear him, who after he has killed, has power to cast into Gehenna. Yes, I tell you, fear him.
  6. “Aren’t five sparrows sold for two assaria coins? Not one of them is forgotten by God.
  7. But the hella hairs of your head are all numbered. so basically don’t be scared. You are of more value than a lot sparrows.
  8. “I tell you, everyone who confesses me before men, him will the Son of Man also confess before the angels of God;
  9. but he who denies me in the presence of men will be denied in the presence of the angels of God.
 10. Everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but those who blaspheme against the set apart Spirit will not be forgiven.
 11. When they bring you before the synagogues, the rulers, and the authorities, don’t be anxious how or what you will answer, or what you will say;
 12. for the set apart Spirit will drop knowledge you in that same hour what you must say.”
 13. One of the multitude said to him, “Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.”
 14. But he said to him, “Man, who made me a judge or an arbitrator over you?”
 15. He said to them, “Beware! Keep yourselves from covetousness, for a man’s life doesn’t consist of the abundance of the things which he possesses.”
 16. He spoke a parable to them, saying, “The ground of a certain stacked man brought forth abundantly.
 17. He reasoned within himself, saying, ‘What will I do, cuz I don’t have room to store my crops?’
 18. He said, ‘This is what I will do. I will pull down my barns, and put together bigger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods.
 19. I will tell my soul, “Soul, you have a lot goods laid up for a lot years. grab your ease, eat, drink, be merry.”’
 20. “But God was like to him, ‘You dumb one, tonight your soul is required of you. The things which you have prepared—whose will they be?’
 21. So is he who lays up treasure for himself, and is not stacked toward God.”
 22. He said to his disciples, “so basically I tell you, don’t be anxious for your life, what you will eat, nor yet for your body, what you will wear.
 23. Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothing.
 24. Consider the ravens: they don’t sow, they don’t reap, they have no warehouse or barn, and God feeds them. How much more valuable are you than birds!
 25. Which of you by being anxious can add a cubit to his height?
 26. If then you aren’t able to do even the least things, why are you anxious about the rest?
 27. Consider the lilies, how they grow. They don’t toil, neither do they spin; yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
 28. But if this is how God clothes the grass in the field, which today exists, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little trusting the process?
 29. Don’t seek what you will eat or what you will drink; neither be anxious.
 30. For the nations of the world seek after all of these things, but your Father knows that you need these things.
 31. But seek God’s God's squad, and all these things will be added to you.
 32. Don’t be scared, little flock, for it is your Father’s fire pleasure to hook it up you the God's squad.
 33. Sell that which you have, and hook it up gifts to the needy. create for yourselves purses which don’t grow old, a treasure in the heavens that doesn’t fail, where no thief approaches, neither moth destroys.
 34. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
 35. “Let your waist be dressed and your lamps burning.
 36. Be like men watching for their boss, when he returns from the marriage feast; that, when he comes and knocks, they may immediately open to him.
 37. blessed up are those servants, whom the boss will find watching when he comes. Most for sure I tell you, that he will dress himself, and create them recline, and will come through and help out them.
 38. They will be blessed up if he comes in the second or third watch, and finds them so.
 39. But get it this, that if the boss of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched, and not allowed his house to be broken into.
 40. so basically be ready also, for the Son of Man is coming in an hour that you don’t expect him.”
 41. Peter said to him, “boss, are you telling this parable to us, or to everybody?”
 42. The boss said, “Who then is the faithful and smart steward, whom his boss will set over his household, to hook it up them their portion of food at the right times?
 43. blessed up is that helper whom his boss will find doing so when he comes.
 44. deadass I tell you, that he will set him over all that he has.
 45. But if that helper says in his heart, ‘My boss delays his coming,’ and begins to beat the menservants and the maidservants, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken,
 46. then the boss of that helper will come through in a day when he isn’t expecting him, and in an hour that he doesn’t get it, and will cut him in two, and place his portion with the unfaithful.
 47. That helper, who knew his boss’s will, and didn’t prepare, nor do what he wanted, will be beaten with a lot stripes,
 48. but he who didn’t get it, and did things worthy of stripes, will be beaten with not much stripes. To whomever much is given, of him will much be required; and to whom much was entrusted, of him more will be asked.
 49. “I came to throw fire on the earth. I wish it were already kindled.
 50. But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how distressed I am until it is accomplished!
 51. Do you think that I have come through to hook it up peace in the earth? I tell you, no, but rather division.
 52. For from now on, there will be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three.
 53. They will be divided, father against son, and son against father; mother against daughter, and daughter against her mother; mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.”
 54. He said to the multitudes also, “When you check it out a cloud rising from the west, immediately you say, ‘A shower is coming,’ and so it happens.
 55. When a south wind blows, you say, ‘there will be a scorching heat,’ and it happens.
 56. You hypocrites! You get it how to interpret the appearance of the earth and the sky, but how is it that you don’t interpret this time?
 57. Why don’t you judge for yourselves what is right?
 58. For when you are going with your adversary before the magistrate, try diligently on the way to be released from him, lest perhaps he drag you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and the officer throw you into prison.
 59. I tell you, you will by no means get out of there, until you have paid the hella last penny.”

# Luke Chapter 13

  1. now there were some present at the same time who told him about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices.
  2. Jesus answered them, “Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, cuz they suffered such things?
  3. I tell you, no, but unless you turn it around, you will all perish in the same way.
  4. Or those eighteen, on whom the tower in Siloam fell, and killed them; do you think that they were worse offenders than all the men who dwell in Jerusalem?
  5. I tell you, no, but, unless you turn it around, you will all perish in the same way.”
  6. He spoke this parable. “A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it, and found none.
  7. He said to the vine dresser, ‘check this out, these three years I have come through looking for fruit on this fig tree, and found none. Cut it down. Why does it waste the soil?’
  8. He answered, ‘boss, leave it alone this year also, until I dig around it, and fertilize it.
  9. If it bears fruit, fine; but if not, after that, you can cut it down.’”
 10. He was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath day.
 11. check this out, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and she was bent over, and could in no way straighten herself up.
 12. When Jesus checked out her, he called her, and said to her, “Woman, you are freed from your infirmity.”
 13. He laid his hands on her, and immediately she stood up straight, and glorified God.
 14. The ruler of the synagogue, being indignant cuz Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the multitude, “there are six days in which men ought to work. so basically come through on those days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day!”
 15. so basically the boss answered him, “You hypocrites! Doesn’t each one of you free his ox or his donkey from the stall on the Sabbath, and show the way him away to water?
 16. Ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan had bound eighteen long years, be freed from this bondage on the Sabbath day?”
 17. As he said these things, all his adversaries were disappointed, and all the multitude rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him.
 18. He said, “What is the God's squad of God like? To what shall I compare it?
 19. It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and put in his own garden. It grew, and became a large tree, and the birds of the sky lodged in its branches.”
 20. Again he said, “To what shall I compare the God's squad of God?
 21. It is like yeast, which a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, until it was all leavened.”
 22. He went on his way through cities and villages, teaching, and traveling on to Jerusalem.
 23. One said to him, “boss, are they not much who are saved?” He said to them,
 24. “Strive to enter in by the narrow door, for a lot, I tell you, will seek to enter in, and will not be able.
 25. When once the boss of the house has risen up, and has shut the door, and you begin to stand outside, and to knock at the door, saying, ‘boss, boss, open to us!’ then he will answer and tell you, ‘I don’t get it you or where you come through from.’
 26. then you will begin to say, ‘We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets.’
 27. He will say, ‘I tell you, I don’t get it where you come through from. Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity.’
 28. there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you check it out Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and all the prophets, in the God's squad of God, and yourselves being thrown outside.
 29. They will come through from the east, west, north, and south, and will sit down in the God's squad of God.
 30. check this out, there are some who are last who will be first, and there are some who are first who will be last.”
 31. On that same day, some Pharisees came, saying to him, “Get out of here, and slide away, for Herod wants to kill you.”
 32. He said to them, “slide and tell that fox, ‘check this out, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the day three I complete my mission.
 33. Nevertheless I must slide on my way today and tomorrow and the next day, for it can’t be that a God's messenger perish outside of Jerusalem.’
 34. “Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that kills the prophets, and stones those who are sent to her! How a lot I wanted to gather your children together, like a hen gathers her own brood under her wings, and you refused!
 35. check this out, your house is left to you desolate. I tell you, you will not check it out me, until you say, ‘blessed up is he who comes in the name of the boss!’”

# Luke Chapter 14

  1. It happened, when he went into the house of one of the rulers of the Pharisees on a Sabbath to eat bread, that they were watching him.
  2. check this out, a certain man who had dropsy was in front of him.
  3. Jesus, answering, spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?”
  4. But they were silent. He took him, and healed him, and let him slide.
  5. He answered them, “Which of you, if your son or an ox fell into a well, wouldn’t immediately pull him out on a Sabbath day?”
  6. They couldn’t answer him regarding these things.
  7. He spoke a parable to those who were invited, when he noticed how they chose the best seats, and said to them,
  8. “When you are invited by anyone to a marriage feast, don’t sit in the best seat, since perhaps someone more honorable than you might be invited by him,
  9. and he who invited both of you would come through and tell you, ‘create room for this person.’ then you would begin, with shame, to grab the lowest place.
 10. But when you are invited, slide and sit in the lowest place, so that when he who invited you comes, he may tell you, ‘Friend, move up higher.’ then you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at the table with you.
 11. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.”
 12. He also said to the one who had invited him, “When you create a dinner or a supper, don’t call your friends, nor your brothers, nor your kinsmen, nor stacked neighbors, or perhaps they might also return the favor, and pay you back.
 13. But when you create a feast, ask the broke, the maimed, the lame, or the blind;
 14. and you will be blessed up, cuz they don’t have the resources to repay you. For you will be repaid in the resurrection of the doing what's right.”
 15. When one of those who sat at the table with him heard these things, he said to him, “blessed up is he who will feast in the God's squad of God!”
 16. But he said to him, “A certain man made a major supper, and he invited a lot people.
 17. He sent out his helper at supper time to tell those who were invited, ‘come through, for everything is ready now.’
 18. They all as one began to create excuses. “The first said to him, ‘I have bought a field, and I must slide and check it out it. Please have me excused.’
 19. “Another said, ‘I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I must slide try them out. Please have me excused.’
 20. “Another said, ‘I have married a wife, and so basically I can’t come through.’
 21. “That helper came, and told his boss these things. then the boss of the house, being mad salty, said to his helper, ‘slide out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the broke, maimed, blind, and lame.’
 22. “The helper said, ‘boss, it is done as you commanded, and there is still room.’
 23. “The boss said to the helper, ‘slide out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come through in, that my house may be filled.
 24. For I tell you that none of those men who were invited will taste of my supper.’”
 25. now major multitudes were going with him. He turned and said to them,
 26. “If anyone comes to me, and doesn’t disregard his own father, mother, wife, children, brothers, and sisters, yes, and his own life also, he can’t be my Jesus' crew.
 27. Whoever doesn’t bear his own cross, and come through after me, can’t be my Jesus' crew.
 28. For which of you, desiring to put together a tower, doesn’t first sit down and count the cost, to check it out if he has enough to complete it?
 29. Or perhaps, when he has laid a foundation, and is not able to finish, everyone who sees begins to mock him,
 30. saying, ‘This man began to put together, and wasn’t able to finish.’
 31. Or what ruler, as he goes to encounter another ruler in war, will not sit down first and consider whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand?
 32. Or else, while the other is yet a major way off, he sends an envoy, and asks for conditions of peace.
 33. So so basically whoever of you who doesn’t renounce all that he has, he can’t be my Jesus' crew.
 34. Salt is fire, but if the salt becomes flat and tasteless, with what do you season it?
 35. It is fit neither for the soil nor for the manure pile. It is thrown out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”

# Luke Chapter 15

  1. now all the tax collectors and sinners were coming close to him to hear him.
  2. The Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, “This man welcomes sinners, and eats with them.”
  3. He told them this parable.
  4. “Which of you men, if you had one hundred sheep, and lost one of them, wouldn’t leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness, and slide after the one that was lost, until he found it?
  5. When he has found it, he carries it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
  6. When he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, ‘be hyped with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost!’
  7. I tell you that even so there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents, than over ninety-nine doing what's right people who need no repentance.
  8. Or what woman, if she had ten drachma coins, if she lost one drachma coin, wouldn’t light a lamp, sweep the house, and seek diligently until she found it?
  9. When she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, ‘be hyped with me, for I have found the drachma which I had lost.’
 10. Even so, I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner repenting.”
 11. He said, “A certain man had two sons.
 12. The younger of them said to his father, ‘Father, hook it up me my share of your property.’ He divided his livelihood between them.
 13. Not a lot days after, the younger son gathered all of this together and traveled into a far country. there he wasted his property with riotous living.
 14. When he had spent all of it, there arose a severe famine in that country, and he began to be in need.
 15. He went and joined himself to one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed pigs.
 16. He wanted to fill his belly with the husks that the pigs ate, but no one gave him any.
 17. But when he came to himself he said, ‘How a lot hired servants of my father’s have bread enough to spare, and I’m dying with hunger!
 18. I will get up and slide to my father, and will tell him, “Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in your sight.
 19. I am no more worthy to be called your son. create me as one of your hired servants.”’
 20. “He arose, and came to his father. But while he was still far off, his father checked out him, and was moved with compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him.
 21. The son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in your sight. I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’
 22. “But the father said to his servants, ‘Bring out the best robe, and put it on him. Put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet.
 23. Bring the fattened calf, kill it, and let us eat, and celebrate;
 24. for this, my son, was dead, and is alive again. He was lost, and is found.’ They began to celebrate.
 25. “now his elder son was in the field. As he came near to the house, he heard music and dancing.
 26. He called one of the servants to him, and asked what was going on.
 27. He said to him, ‘Your brother has come through, and your father has killed the fattened calf, cuz he has received him back safe and healthy.’
 28. But he was mad salty, and would not slide in. so basically his father came out, and begged him.
 29. But he answered his father, ‘check this out, these a lot years I have served you, and I never disobeyed a commandment of yours, but you never gave me a goat, that I might celebrate with my friends.
 30. But when this, your son, came, who has devoured your living with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him.’
 31. “He said to him, ‘Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours.
 32. But it was appropriate to celebrate and be glad, for this, your brother, was dead, and is alive again. He was lost, and is found.’”

# Luke Chapter 16

  1. He also said to his disciples, “there was a certain stacked man who had a manager. An accusation was made to him that this man was wasting his possessions.
  2. He called him, and said to him, ‘What is this that I hear about you? hook it up an accounting of your management, for you can no longer be manager.’
  3. “The manager said within himself, ‘What will I do, seeing that my boss is taking away the management position from me? I don’t have strength to dig. I am ashamed to beg.
  4. I get it what I will do, so that when I am removed from management, they may receive me into their houses.’
  5. Calling each one of his boss’s debtors to him, he said to the first, ‘How much do you owe to my boss?’
  6. He said, ‘A hundred batos of oil.’ He said to him, ‘grab your bill, and sit down quickly and write fifty.’
  7. then he said to another, ‘How much do you owe?’ He said, ‘A hundred cors of wheat.’ He said to him, ‘grab your bill, and write eighty.’
  8. “His boss commended the dishonest manager cuz he had done wisely, for the children of this world are, in their own generation, wiser than the children of the light.
  9. I tell you, create for yourselves friends by means of unrighteous mammon, so that when you fail, they may receive you into the eternal tents.
 10. He who is faithful in a hella little is faithful also in much. He who is dishonest in a hella little is also dishonest in much.
 11. If so basically you have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches?
 12. If you have not been faithful in that which is another’s, who will hook it up you that which is your own?
 13. No helper can help out two masters, for either he will can't stand the one, and show love the other; or else he will hold to one, and despise the other. You aren’t able to help out God and mammon.”
 14. The Pharisees, who were lovers of money, also heard all these things, and they scoffed at him.
 15. He said to them, “You are those who justify yourselves in the sight of men, but God knows your hearts. For that which is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God.
 16. The law and the prophets were until John. From that time the fire News of the God's squad of God is preached, and everyone is forcing his way into it.
 17. But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, than for one tiny stroke of a pen in the law to fall.
 18. Everyone who divorces his wife, and marries another, commits adultery. He who marries one who is divorced from a husband commits adultery.
 19. “now there was a certain stacked man, and he was clothed in purple and fine linen, living in luxury every day.
 20. A certain beggar, named Lazarus, was laid at his gate, full of sores,
 21. and desiring to be fed with the crumbs that fell from the stacked man’s table. Yes, even the dogs came and licked his sores.
 22. It happened that the beggar died, and that he was carried away by the angels to Abraham’s bosom. The stacked man also died, and was buried.
 23. In Hades, he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and checked out Abraham far off, and Lazarus at his bosom.
 24. He cried and said, ‘Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue! For I am in anguish in this flame.’
 25. “But Abraham said, ‘Son, remember that you, in your lifetime, received your fire things, and Lazarus, in the same way, trash things. But now here he is comforted and you are in anguish.
 26. Besides all this, between us and you there is a major gulf fixed, that those who want to pass from here to you are not able, and that none may cross over from there to us.’
 27. “He said, ‘I ask you so basically, father, that you would send him to my father’s house;
 28. for I have five brothers, that he may testify to them, so they won’t also come through into this place of torment.’
 29. “But Abraham said to him, ‘They have Moses and the prophets. Let them listen up to them.’
 30. “He said, ‘No, father Abraham, but if one goes to them from the dead, they will turn it around.’
 31. “He said to him, ‘If they don’t listen up to Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded if one rises from the dead.’”

# Luke Chapter 17

  1. He said to the disciples, “It is impossible that no occasions of stumbling should come through, but woe to him through whom they come through!
  2. It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck, and he were thrown into the sea, rather than that he should cause one of these little ones to stumble.
  3. Be careful. If your brother sins against you, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him.
  4. If he sins against you seven times in the day, and seven times returns, saying, ‘I turn it around,’ you shall forgive him.”
  5. The apostles said to the boss, “Increase our trusting the process.”
  6. The boss said, “If you had trusting the process like a grain of mustard seed, you would tell this sycamore tree, ‘Be uprooted, and be planted in the sea,’ and it would obey you.
  7. But who is there among you, having a helper plowing or keeping sheep, that will say, when he comes in from the field, ‘come through immediately and sit down at the table,’
  8. and will not rather tell him, ‘Prepare my supper, clothe yourself properly, and help out me, while I eat and drink. Afterward you shall eat and drink’?
  9. Does he thank that helper cuz he did the things that were commanded? I think not.
 10. Even so you also, when you have done all the things that are commanded you, say, ‘We are unworthy servants. We have done our duty.’”
 11. It happened as he was on his way to Jerusalem, that he was passing along the borders of Samaria and Galilee.
 12. As he entered into a certain village, ten men who were lepers met him, who stood at a distance.
 13. They lifted up their voices, saying, “Jesus, boss, have mercy on us!”
 14. When he checked out them, he said to them, “slide and show yourselves to the priests.” It happened that as they went, they were cleansed.
 15. One of them, when he checked out that he was healed, turned back, glorifying God with a loud voice.
 16. He fell on his face at Jesus’ feet, giving him thanks; and he was a Samaritan.
 17. Jesus answered, “Weren’t the ten cleansed? But where are the nine?
 18. Were there none found who returned to hook it up glory to God, except this stranger?”
 19. then he said to him, “Get up, and slide your way. Your trusting the process has healed you.”
 20. Being asked by the Pharisees when the God's squad of God would come through, he answered them, “The God's squad of God doesn’t come through with observation;
 21. neither will they say, ‘Look, here!’ or, ‘Look, there!’ for check this out, the God's squad of God is within you.”
 22. He said to the disciples, “The days will come through, when you will desire to check it out one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not check it out it.
 23. They will tell you, ‘Look, here!’ or ‘Look, there!’ Don’t slide away, nor roll with after them,
 24. for as the lightning, when it flashes out of the one part under the sky, shines to the other part under the sky; so will the Son of Man be in his day.
 25. But first, he must suffer a lot things and be rejected by this generation.
 26. As it happened in the days of Noah, even so will it be also in the days of the Son of Man.
 27. They ate, they drank, they married, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ship, and the flood came, and destroyed them all.
 28. Likewise, even as it happened in the days of Lot: they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built;
 29. but in the day that Lot went out from Sodom, it rained fire and sulfur from the sky, and destroyed them all.
 30. It will be the same way in the day that the Son of Man is revealed.
 31. In that day, he who will be on the housetop, and his goods in the house, let him not slide down to grab them away. Let him who is in the field likewise not turn back.
 32. Remember Lot’s wife!
 33. Whoever seeks to rescue his life loses it, but whoever loses his life preserves it.
 34. I tell you, in that night there will be two people in one bed. The one will be taken, and the other will be left.
 35. there will be two grinding grain together. One will be taken, and the other will be left.”
 37. They, answering, asked him, “Where, boss?” He said to them, “Where the body is, there will the vultures also be gathered together.”

# Luke Chapter 18

  1. He also spoke a parable to them that they must always pray, and not hook it up up,
  2. saying, “there was a judge in a certain city who didn’t fear God, and didn’t respect man.
  3. A widow was in that city, and she a lot came to him, saying, ‘Defend me from my adversary!’
  4. He wouldn’t for a while, but afterward he said to himself, ‘Though I neither fear God, nor respect man,
  5. yet cuz this widow bothers me, I will defend her, or else she will wear me out by her continual coming.’”
  6. The boss said, “listen up to what the unrighteous judge says.
  7. Won’t God avenge his chosen ones, who are crying out to him day and night, and yet he exercises patience with them?
  8. I tell you that he will avenge them quickly. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find trusting the process on the earth?”
  9. He spoke also this parable to certain people who were convinced of their own righteousness, and who despised all others.
 10. “Two men went up into the God's house to pray; one was a Pharisee, and the other was a tax collector.
 11. The Pharisee stood and prayed to himself like this: ‘God, I thank you, that I am not like the rest of men, extortioners, unrighteous, adulterers, or even like this tax collector.
 12. I fast twice a week. I hook it up tithes of all that I get.’
 13. But the tax collector, standing far away, wouldn’t even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, ‘God, be merciful to me, a sinner!’
 14. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other; for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted.”
 15. They were also bringing their babies to him, that he might touch them. But when the disciples checked out it, they rebuked them.
 16. Jesus summoned them, saying, “Allow the little children to come through to me, and don’t hinder them, for the God's squad of God belongs to such as these.
 17. Most for sure, I tell you, whoever doesn’t receive the God's squad of God like a little child, he will in no way enter into it.”
 18. A certain ruler asked him, saying, “fire Teacher, what shall I do to inherit living forever?”
 19. Jesus asked him, “Why do you call me fire? No one is fire, except one—God.
 20. You get it the commandments: ‘Don’t commit adultery,’ ‘Don’t murder,’ ‘Don’t steal,’ ‘Don’t hook it up false testimony,’ ‘Honor your father and your mother.’”
 21. He said, “I have observed all these things from my youth up.”
 22. When Jesus heard these things, he said to him, “You still lack one thing. Sell all that you have, and distribute it to the broke. You will have treasure in heaven. come through, roll with me.”
 23. But when he heard these things, he became hella sad, for he was hella stacked.
 24. Jesus, seeing that he became hella sad, said, “How hard it is for those who have riches to enter into the God's squad of God!
 25. For it is easier for a camel to enter in through a needle’s eye, than for a stacked man to enter into the God's squad of God.”
 26. Those who heard it said, “then who can be saved?”
 27. But he said, “The things which are impossible with men are possible with God.”
 28. Peter said, “Look, we have left everything, and followed you.”
 29. He said to them, “Most for sure I tell you, there is no one who has left house, or wife, or brothers, or parents, or children, for the God's squad of God’s sake,
 30. who will not receive a lot times more in this time, and in the world to come through, living forever.”
 31. He took the twelve aside, and said to them, “check this out, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all the things that are written through the prophets concerning the Son of Man will be completed.
 32. For he will be delivered up to the Gentiles, will be mocked, treated shamefully, and spit on.
 33. They will scourge and kill him. On the day three, he will rise again.”
 34. They understood none of these things. This saying was hidden from them, and they didn’t understand the things that were said.
 35. It happened, as he came near Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the road, begging.
 36. Hearing a multitude going by, he asked what this meant.
 37. They told him that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by.
 38. He cried out, “Jesus, you son of David, have mercy on me!”
 39. Those who led the way rebuked him, that he should be quiet; but he cried out all the more, “You son of David, have mercy on me!”
 40. Standing still, Jesus commanded him to be brought to him. When he had come through near, he asked him,
 41. “What do you want me to do?” He said, “boss, that I may check it out again.”
 42. Jesus said to him, “Receive your sight. Your trusting the process has healed you.”
 43. Immediately he received his sight, and followed him, glorifying God. All the people, when they checked out it, praised God.

# Luke Chapter 19

  1. He entered and was passing through Jericho.
  2. there was a man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector, and he was stacked.
  3. He was trying to check it out who Jesus was, and couldn’t cuz of the crowd, cuz he was short.
  4. He ran on ahead, and climbed up into a sycamore tree to check it out him, for he was to pass that way.
  5. When Jesus came to the place, he looked up and checked out him, and said to him, “Zacchaeus, hurry and come through down, for today I must stay at your house.”
  6. He hurried, came down, and received him joyfully.
  7. When they checked out it, they all murmured, saying, “He has gone in to lodge with a man who is a sinner.”
  8. Zacchaeus stood and said to the boss, “check this out, boss, half of my goods I hook it up to the broke. If I have wrongfully exacted anything of anyone, I restore four times as much.”
  9. Jesus said to him, “Today, getting saved has come through to this house, cuz he also is a son of Abraham.
 10. For the Son of Man came to seek and to rescue that which was lost.”
 11. As they heard these things, he went on and told a parable, cuz he was near Jerusalem, and they supposed that the God's squad of God would be revealed immediately.
 12. He said so basically, “A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a God's squad, and to return.
 13. He called ten servants of his, and gave them ten mina coins, and told them, ‘Conduct business until I come through.’
 14. But his citizens hated him, and sent an envoy after him, saying, ‘We don’t want this man to reign over us.’
 15. “It happened when he had come through back again, having received the God's squad, that he commanded these servants, to whom he had given the money, to be called to him, that he might get it what they had gained by conducting business.
 16. The first came before him, saying, ‘boss, your mina has made ten more minas.’
 17. “He said to him, ‘Well done, you fire helper! cuz you were found faithful with hella little, you shall have authority over ten cities.’
 18. “The second came, saying, ‘Your mina, boss, has made five minas.’
 19. “So he said to him, ‘And you are to be over five cities.’
 20. Another came, saying, ‘boss, check this out, your mina, which I kept laid away in a handkerchief,
 21. for I feared you, cuz you are an exacting man. You grab up that which you didn’t lay down, and reap that which you didn’t sow.’
 22. “He said to him, ‘Out of your own mouth will I judge you, you wicked helper! You knew that I am an exacting man, taking up that which I didn’t lay down, and reaping that which I didn’t sow.
 23. then why didn’t you deposit my money in the bank, and at my coming, I might have earned interest on it?’
 24. He said to those who stood by, ‘grab the mina away from him, and hook it up it to him who has the ten minas.’
 25. “They said to him, ‘boss, he has ten minas!’
 26. ‘For I tell you that to everyone who has, will more be given; but from him who doesn’t have, even that which he has will be taken away from him.
 27. But bring those enemies of mine who didn’t want me to reign over them here, and kill them before me.’”
 28. Having said these things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem.
 29. It happened, when he drew near to Bethsphage and Bethany, at the mountain that is called Olivet, he sent two of his disciples,
 30. saying, “slide your way into the village on the other side, in which, as you enter, you will find a colt tied, whereon no man ever yet sat. Untie it, and bring it.
 31. If anyone asks you, ‘Why are you untying it?’ say to him: ‘The boss needs it.’”
 32. Those who were sent went away, and found things just as he had told them.
 33. As they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, “Why are you untying the colt?”
 34. They said, “The boss needs it.”
 35. They brought it to Jesus. They threw their cloaks on the colt, and set Jesus on them.
 36. As he went, they spread their cloaks in the way.
 37. As he was now getting near, at the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to be hyped and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works which they had seen,
 38. saying, “blessed up is the ruler who comes in the name of the boss! Peace in heaven, and glory in the highest!”
 39. Some of the Pharisees from the multitude said to him, “Teacher, rebuke your disciples!”
 40. He answered them, “I tell you that if these were silent, the stones would cry out.”
 41. When he drew near, he checked out the city and wept over it,
 42. saying, “If you, even you, had known today the things which belong to your peace! But now, they are hidden from your eyes.
 43. For the days will come through on you, when your enemies will throw up a barricade against you, surround you, hem you in on every side,
 44. and will dash you and your children within you to the ground. They will not leave in you one stone on another, cuz you didn’t get it the time of your visitation.”
 45. He entered into the God's house, and began to drive out those who bought and sold in it,
 46. saying to them, “It is written, ‘My house is a house of talking to God,’ but you have made it a ‘den of robbers’!”
 47. He was teaching daily in the God's house, but the chief priests and the scribes and the leading men among the people sought to tear down him.
 48. They couldn’t find what they might do, for all the people hung on to every word that he said.

# Luke Chapter 20

  1. It happened on one of those days, as he was teaching the people in the God's house and preaching the fire News, that the priests and scribes came to him with the elders.
  2. They asked him, “Tell us: by what authority do you do these things? Or who is giving you this authority?”
  3. He answered them, “I also will ask you one question. Tell me:
  4. the baptism of John, was it from heaven, or from men?”
  5. They reasoned with themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say, ‘Why didn’t you believe him?’
  6. But if we say, ‘From men,’ all the people will stone us, for they are persuaded that John was a God's messenger.”
  7. They answered that they didn’t get it where it was from.
  8. Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.”
  9. He began to tell the people this parable. “A man planted a vineyard, and rented it out to some farmers, and went into another country for a long time.
 10. At the proper season, he sent a helper to the farmers to collect his share of the fruit of the vineyard. But the farmers beat him, and sent him away empty.
 11. He sent yet another helper, and they also beat him, and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty.
 12. He sent yet a third, and they also wounded him, and threw him out.
 13. The boss of the vineyard said, ‘What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. It may be that seeing him, they will respect him.’
 14. “But when the farmers checked out him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, ‘This is the heir. come through, let’s kill him, that the inheritance may be ours.’
 15. They threw him out of the vineyard, and killed him. What so basically will the boss of the vineyard do to them?
 16. He will come through and tear down these farmers, and will hook it up the vineyard to others.” When they heard it, they said, “May it never be!”
 17. But he looked at them, and said, “then what is this that is written, ‘The stone which the builders rejected, the same was made the chief cornerstone?’
 18. Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, but it will crush whomever it falls on to dust.”
 19. The chief priests and the scribes sought to lay hands on him that hella hour, but they feared the people—for they knew he had spoken this parable against them.
 20. They watched him, and sent out spies, who pretended to be doing what's right, that they might trap him in something he said, so as to deliver him up to the power and authority of the governor.
 21. They asked him, “Teacher, we get it that you say and drop knowledge what is right, and aren’t partial to anyone, but deadass drop knowledge the way of God.
 22. Is it lawful for us to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?”
 23. But he perceived their craftiness, and said to them, “Why do you test me?
 24. Show me a denarius. Whose image and inscription are on it?” They answered, “Caesar’s.”
 25. He said to them, “then hook it up to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.”
 26. They weren’t able to trap him in his words before the people. They marveled at his answer, and were silent.
 27. Some of the Sadducees came to him, those who deny that there is a resurrection.
 28. They asked him, “Teacher, Moses wrote to us that if a man’s brother dies having a wife, and he is childless, his brother should grab the wife, and raise up children for his brother.
 29. there were so basically seven brothers. The first took a wife, and died childless.
 30. The second took her as wife, and he died childless.
 31. The third took her, and likewise the seven all left no children, and died.
 32. Afterward the woman also died.
 33. so basically in the resurrection whose wife of them will she be? For the seven had her as a wife.”
 34. Jesus said to them, “The children of this age marry, and are given in marriage.
 35. But those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage.
 36. For they can’t die any more, for they are like the angels, and are children of God, being children of the resurrection.
 37. But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed at the bush, when he called the boss ‘The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.’
 38. now he is not the God of the dead, but of the living, for all are alive to him.”
 39. Some of the scribes answered, “Teacher, you spill the tea well.”
 40. They didn’t dare to ask him any more questions.
 41. He said to them, “Why do they say that the anointed one is David’s son?
 42. David himself says in the book of Psalms, ‘The boss said to my boss, “Sit at my right hand,
 43. until I create your enemies the footstool of your feet.”’
 44. “David so basically calls him boss, so how is he his son?”
 45. In the hearing of all the people, he said to his disciples,
 46. “Beware of the scribes, who like to walk in long robes, and show love greetings in the marketplaces, the best seats in the synagogues, and the best places at feasts;
 47. who devour widows’ houses, and for a pretense create long prayers: these will receive greater condemnation.”

# Luke Chapter 21

  1. He looked up, and checked out the stacked people who were putting their gifts into the treasury.
  2. He checked out a certain broke widow casting in two tiny brass coins.
  3. He said, “deadass I tell you, this broke widow put in more than all of them,
  4. for all these put in gifts for God from their abundance, but she, out of her poverty, put in all that she had to live on.”
  5. As some were talking about the God's house and how it was decorated with snatched stones and gifts, he said,
  6. “As for these things which you check it out, the days will come through, in which there will not be left here one stone on another that will not be thrown down.”
  7. They asked him, “Teacher, so when will these things be? What is the sign that these things are about to happen?”
  8. He said, “Watch out that you don’t get led astray, for a lot will come through in my name, saying, ‘I am he,’ and, ‘The time is at hand.’ so basically don’t roll with them.
  9. When you hear of wars and disturbances, don’t be terrified, for these things must happen first, but the end won’t come through immediately.”
 10. then he said to them, “Nation will rise against nation, and God's squad against God's squad.
 11. there will be major earthquakes, famines, and plagues in various places. there will be terrors and major signs from heaven.
 12. But before all these things, they will lay their hands on you and will persecute you, delivering you up to synagogues and prisons, bringing you before kings and governors for my name’s sake.
 13. It will turn out as a testimony for you.
 14. Settle it so basically in your hearts not to meditate beforehand how to answer,
 15. for I will hook it up you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries will not be able to withstand or to contradict.
 16. You will be handed over even by parents, brothers, relatives, and friends. They will cause some of you to be put to death.
 17. You will be hated by all men for my name’s sake.
 18. And not a hair of your head will perish.
 19. “By your endurance you will win your lives.
 20. “But when you check it out Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then get it that its desolation is at hand.
 21. then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let those who are in the midst of her depart. Let those who are in the country not enter therein.
 22. For these are days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled.
 23. Woe to those who are pregnant and to those who nurse infants in those days! For there will be major distress in the land, and wrath to this people.
 24. They will fall by the edge of the sword, and will be led captive into all the nations. Jerusalem will be trampled down by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
 25. there will be signs in the sun, moon, and stars; and on the earth anxiety of nations, in perplexity for the roaring of the sea and the waves;
 26. men fainting for fear, and for expectation of the things which are coming on the world: for the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
 27. then they will check it out the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and major glory.
 28. But when these things begin to happen, look up, and lift up your heads, cuz your redemption is near.”
 29. He told them a parable. “check it out the fig tree, and all the trees.
 30. When they are already budding, you check it out it and get it by your own selves that the summer is already near.
 31. Even so you also, when you check it out these things happening, get it that the God's squad of God is near.
 32. Most for sure I tell you, this generation will not pass away until all things are accomplished.
 33. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away.
 34. “So be careful, or your hearts will be loaded down with carousing, drunkenness, and cares of this life, and that day will come through on you suddenly.
 35. For it will come through like a snare on all those who dwell on the surface of all the earth.
 36. so basically be watchful all the time, praying that you may be counted worthy to escape all these things that will happen, and to stand before the Son of Man.”
 37. Every day Jesus was teaching in the God's house, and every night he would slide out and spend the night on the mountain that is called Olivet.
 38. All the people came early in the morning to him in the God's house to hear him.

# Luke Chapter 22

  1. now the feast of unleavened bread, which is called the Passover, drew near.
  2. The chief priests and the scribes sought how they might put him to death, for they feared the people.
  3. Satan entered into Judas, who was surnamed Iscariot, who was numbered with the twelve.
  4. He went away, and talked with the chief priests and captains about how he might deliver him to them.
  5. They were glad, and agreed to hook it up him money.
  6. He consented, and sought an opportunity to deliver him to them in the absence of the multitude.
  7. The day of unleavened bread came, on which the Passover must be sacrificed.
  8. He sent Peter and John, saying, “slide and prepare the Passover for us, that we may eat.”
  9. They said to him, “Where do you want us to prepare?”
 10. He said to them, “check this out, when you have entered into the city, a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you. roll with him into the house which he enters.
 11. Tell the boss of the house, ‘The Teacher says to you, “Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?”’
 12. He will show you a large, furnished upper room. create preparations there.”
 13. They went, found things as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover.
 14. When the hour had come through, he sat down with the twelve apostles.
 15. He said to them, “I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer,
 16. for I tell you, I will no longer by any means eat of it until it is fulfilled in the God's squad of God.”
 17. He received a cup, and when he had given thanks, he said, “grab this, and share it among yourselves,
 18. for I tell you, I will not drink at all again from the fruit of the vine, until the God's squad of God comes.”
 19. He took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and gave to them, saying, “This is my body which is given for you. Do this in memory of me.”
 20. Likewise, he took the cup after supper, saying, “This cup is the new God's promise in my blood, which is poured out for you.
 21. But check this out, the hand of him who betrays me is with me on the table.
 22. The Son of Man facts goes, as it has been determined, but woe to that man through whom he is betrayed!”
 23. They began to question among themselves, which of them it was who would do this thing.
 24. there arose also a contention among them, which of them was considered to be greatest.
 25. He said to them, “The kings of the nations boss it over them, and those who have authority over them are called ‘benefactors.’
 26. But not so with you. But one who is the greater among you, let him become as the younger, and one who is governing, as one who serves.
 27. For who is greater, one who sits at the table, or one who serves? Isn’t it he who sits at the table? But I am in the midst of you as one who serves.
 28. But you are those who have continued with me in my trials.
 29. I confer on you a God's squad, even as my Father conferred on me,
 30. that you may eat and drink at my table in my God's squad. You will sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.”
 31. The boss said, “Simon, Simon, check this out, Satan asked to have you, that he might sift you as wheat,
 32. but I prayed for you, that your trusting the process wouldn’t fail. You, when once you have turned again, establish your brothers.”
 33. He said to him, “boss, I am ready to slide with you both to prison and to death!”
 34. He said, “I tell you, Peter, the rooster will by no means crow today until you deny that you get it me three times.”
 35. He said to them, “When I sent you out without purse, and wallet, and shoes, did you lack anything?” They said, “Nothing.”
 36. then he said to them, “But now, whoever has a purse, let him grab it, and likewise a wallet. Whoever has none, let him sell his cloak, and buy a sword.
 37. For I tell you that this which is written must still be fulfilled in me: ‘He was counted with transgressors.’ For that which concerns me has an end.”
 38. They said, “boss, check this out, here are two swords.” He said to them, “That is enough.”
 39. He came out, and went, as his custom was, to the Mount of Olives. His disciples also followed him.
 40. When he was at the place, he said to them, “Pray that you don’t enter into temptation.”
 41. He was withdrawn from them about a stone’s throw, and he knelt down and prayed,
 42. saying, “Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours, be done.”
 43. An angel from heaven appeared to him, strengthening him.
 44. Being in agony he prayed more earnestly. His sweat became like major drops of blood falling down on the ground.
 45. When he rose up from his talking to God, he came to the disciples, and found them sleeping cuz of grief,
 46. and said to them, “Why do you sleep? Rise and pray that you may not enter into temptation.”
 47. While he was still speaking, check this out, a multitude, and he who was called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them. He came near to Jesus to kiss him.
 48. But Jesus said to him, “Judas, do you betray the Son of Man with a kiss?”
 49. When those who were around him checked out what was about to happen, they said to him, “boss, shall we strike with the sword?”
 50. A certain one of them struck the helper of the high priest, and cut off his right ear.
 51. But Jesus answered, “Let me at least do this”—and he touched his ear, and healed him.
 52. Jesus said to the chief priests, captains of the God's house, and elders, who had come through against him, “Have you come through out as against a robber, with swords and clubs?
 53. When I was with you in the God's house daily, you didn’t stretch out your hands against me. But this is your hour, and the power of darkness.”
 54. They seized him, and led him away, and brought him into the high priest’s house. But Peter followed from a distance.
 55. When they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard, and had sat down together, Peter sat among them.
 56. A certain helper girl checked out him as he sat in the light, and looking intently at him, said, “This man also was with him.”
 57. He denied Jesus, saying, “Woman, I don’t get it him.”
 58. After a little while someone else checked out him, and said, “You also are one of them!” But Peter answered, “Man, I am not!”
 59. After about one hour passed, another confidently affirmed, saying, “deadass this man also was with him, for he is a Galilean!”
 60. But Peter said, “Man, I don’t get it what you are talking about!” Immediately, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed.
 61. The boss turned, and looked at Peter. then Peter remembered the boss’s word, how he said to him, “Before the rooster crows you will deny me three times.”
 62. He went out, and wept bitterly.
 63. The men who held Jesus mocked him and beat him.
 64. Having blindfolded him, they struck him on the face and asked him, “Prophesy! Who is the one who struck you?”
 65. They spoke a lot other things against him, insulting him.
 66. As soon as it was day, the assembly of the elders of the people was gathered together, both chief priests and scribes, and they led him away into their council, saying,
 67. “If you are the anointed one, tell us.” But he said to them, “If I tell you, you won’t believe,
 68. and if I ask, you will in no way answer me or let me slide.
 69. From now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God.”
 70. They all said, “Are you then the Son of God?” He said to them, “You say it, cuz I am.”
 71. They said, “Why do we need any more witness? For we ourselves have heard from his own mouth!”

# Luke Chapter 23

  1. The whole company of them rose up and brought him before Pilate.
  2. They began to accuse him, saying, “We found this man perverting the nation, forbidding paying taxes to Caesar, and saying that he himself is anointed one, a ruler.”
  3. Pilate asked him, “Are you the ruler of the Jews?” He answered him, “So you say.”
  4. Pilate said to the chief priests and the multitudes, “I find no basis for a charge against this man.”
  5. But they insisted, saying, “He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee even to this place.”
  6. But when Pilate heard Galilee mentioned, he asked if the man was a Galilean.
  7. When he found out that he was in Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem during those days.
  8. now when Herod checked out Jesus, he was exceedingly glad, for he had wanted to check it out him for a long time, cuz he had heard a lot things about him. He hoped to check it out some miracle done by him.
  9. He questioned him with a lot words, but he gave no answers.
 10. The chief priests and the scribes stood, vehemently accusing him.
 11. Herod with his soldiers humiliated him and mocked him. Dressing him in luxurious clothing, they sent him back to Pilate.
 12. Herod and Pilate became friends with each other that hella day, for before that they were enemies with each other.
 13. Pilate called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
 14. and said to them, “You brought this man to me as one that perverts the people, and check it out, I have examined him before you, and found no basis for a charge against this man concerning those things of which you accuse him.
 15. Neither has Herod, for I sent you to him, and check it out, nothing worthy of death has been done by him.
 16. I will so basically chastise him and release him.”
 17. now he had to release one prisoner to them at the feast.
 18. But they all cried out together, saying, “Away with this man! Release to us Barabbas!”—
 19. one who was thrown into prison for a certain revolt in the city, and for murder.
 20. then Pilate spoke to them again, wanting to release Jesus,
 21. but they shouted, saying, “Crucify! Crucify him!”
 22. He said to them the third time, “Why? What evil has this man done? I have found no capital crime in him. I will so basically chastise him and release him.”
 23. But they were urgent with loud voices, asking that he might be crucified. Their voices and the voices of the chief priests prevailed.
 24. Pilate decreed that what they asked for should be done.
 25. He released him who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, for whom they asked, but he delivered Jesus up to their will.
 26. When they led him away, they grabbed one Simon of Cyrene, coming from the country, and laid on him the cross, to carry it after Jesus.
 27. A major multitude of the people followed him, including women who also mourned and lamented him.
 28. But Jesus, turning to them, said, “Daughters of Jerusalem, don’t weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children.
 29. For check this out, the days are coming in which they will say, ‘blessed up are the barren, the wombs that never bore, and the breasts that never nursed.’
 30. then they will begin to tell the mountains, ‘Fall on us!’ and tell the hills, ‘Cover us.’
 31. For if they do these things in the green tree, what will be done in the dry?”
 32. there were also others, two criminals, led with him to be put to death.
 33. When they came to the place that is called The Skull, they crucified him there with the criminals, one on the right and the other on the left.
 34. Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they don’t get it what they are doing.” Dividing his garments among them, they cast lots.
 35. The people stood watching. The rulers with them also scoffed at him, saying, “He saved others. Let him rescue himself, if this is the anointed one of God, his chosen one!”
 36. The soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and giving to God him vinegar,
 37. and saying, “If you are the ruler of the Jews, rescue yourself!”
 38. An inscription was also written over him in letters of Greek, Latin, and Hebrew: “THIS IS THE ruler OF THE JEWS.”
 39. One of the criminals who was hanged insulted him, saying, “If you are the anointed one, rescue yourself and us!”
 40. But the other answered, and rebuking him said, “Don’t you even fear God, seeing you are under the same condemnation?
 41. And we facts justly, for we receive the due reward for our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong.”
 42. He said to Jesus, “boss, remember me when you come through into your God's squad.”
 43. Jesus said to him, “Assuredly I tell you, today you will be with me in Paradise.”
 44. It was now about the sixth hour, and darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour.
 45. The sun was darkened, and the veil of the God's house was torn in two.
 46. Jesus, crying with a loud voice, said, “Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!” Having said this, he breathed his last.
 47. When the centurion checked out what was done, he glorified God, saying, “for sure this was a doing what's right man.”
 48. All the multitudes that came together to check it out this, when they checked out the things that were done, returned home beating their breasts.
 49. All his acquaintances, and the women who followed with him from Galilee, stood at a distance, watching these things.
 50. check this out, a man named Joseph, who was a member of the council, a fire and doing what's right man
 51. (he had not consented to their counsel and deed), from Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, who was also waiting for the God's squad of God:
 52. this man went to Pilate, and asked for Jesus’ body.
 53. He took it down, and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb that was cut in stone, where no one had ever been laid.
 54. It was the day of the Preparation, and the Sabbath was drawing near.
 55. The women, who had come through with him out of Galilee, followed after, and checked out the tomb, and how his body was laid.
 56. They returned, and prepared spices and ointments. On the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment.

# Luke Chapter 24

  1. But on the day one of the week, at early dawn, they and some others came to the tomb, bringing the spices which they had prepared.
  2. They found the stone rolled away from the tomb.
  3. They entered in, and didn’t find the boss Jesus’ body.
  4. It happened, while they were greatly perplexed about this, check this out, two men stood by them in dazzling clothing.
  5. Becoming terrified, they bowed their faces down to the earth. They said to them, “Why do you seek the living among the dead?
  6. He isn’t here, but is risen. Remember what he told you when he was still in Galilee,
  7. saying that the Son of Man must be delivered up into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the day three rise again?”
  8. They remembered his words,
  9. returned from the tomb, and told all these things to the eleven, and to all the rest.
 10. now they were Mary Magdalene, Joanna, and Mary the mother of James. The other women with them told these things to the apostles.
 11. These words seemed to them to be nonsense, and they didn’t believe them.
 12. But Peter got up and ran to the tomb. Stooping and looking in, he checked out the strips of linen lying by themselves, and he departed to his home, wondering what had happened.
 13. check this out, two of them were going that hella day to a village named Emmaus, which was sixty stadia from Jerusalem.
 14. They talked with each other about all of these things which had happened.
 15. It happened, while they talked and questioned together, that Jesus himself came near, and went with them.
 16. But their eyes were kept from recognizing him.
 17. He said to them, “What are you talking about as you walk, and are sad?”
 18. One of them, named Cleopas, answered him, “Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem who doesn’t get it the things which have happened there in these days?”
 19. He said to them, “What things?” They said to him, “The things concerning Jesus, the Nazarene, who was a God's messenger mighty in deed and word before God and all the people;
 20. and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death, and crucified him.
 21. But we were hoping that it was he who would redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the day three since these things happened.
 22. Also, certain women of our company amazed us, having arrived early at the tomb;
 23. and when they didn’t find his body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive.
 24. Some of us went to the tomb, and found it just like the women had said, but they didn’t check it out him.”
 25. He said to them, “dumb men, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken!
 26. Didn’t the anointed one have to suffer these things and to enter into his glory?”
 27. Beginning from Moses and from all the prophets, he explained to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning himself.
 28. They drew near to the village, where they were going, and he acted like he would slide further.
 29. They urged him, saying, “Stay with us, for it is almost evening, and the day is almost over.” He went in to stay with them.
 30. It happened, that when he had sat down at the table with them, he took the bread and gave thanks. Breaking it, he gave to them.
 31. Their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished out of their sight.
 32. They said one to another, “Weren’t our hearts burning within us, while he spoke to us along the way, and while he opened the Scriptures to us?”
 33. They rose up that hella hour, returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and those who were with them,
 34. saying, “The boss is risen facts, and has appeared to Simon!”
 35. They related the things that happened along the way, and how he was recognized by them in the breaking of the bread.
 36. As they said these things, Jesus himself stood among them, and said to them, “Peace be to you.”
 37. But they were terrified and filled with fear, and supposed that they had seen a spirit.
 38. He said to them, “Why are you troubled? Why do doubts arise in your hearts?
 39. check it out my hands and my feet, that it is deadass me. Touch me and check it out, for a spirit doesn’t have flesh and bones, as you check it out that I have.”
 40. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet.
 41. While they still didn’t believe for joy, and wondered, he said to them, “Do you have anything here to eat?”
 42. They gave him a piece of a broiled fish and some honeycomb.
 43. He took them, and ate in front of them.
 44. He said to them, “This is what I told you, while I was still with you, that all things which are written in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the psalms, concerning me must be fulfilled.”
 45. then he opened their minds, that they might understand the Scriptures.
 46. He said to them, “Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the anointed one to suffer and to rise from the dead the day three,
 47. and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all the nations, beginning at Jerusalem.
 48. You are witnesses of these things.
 49. check this out, I send forth the promise of my Father on you. But wait in the city of Jerusalem until you are clothed with power from on high.”
 50. He led them out as far as Bethany, and he lifted up his hands, and blessed up them.
 51. It happened, while he blessed up them, that he withdrew from them, and was carried up into heaven.
 52. They worshiped him, and returned to Jerusalem with major joy,
 53. and were continually in the God's house, praising and blessing God. facts.


MARK
----

# Mark Chapter 1

  1. The beginning of the fire News of Jesus anointed one, the Son of God.
  2. As it is written in the prophets, “check this out, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.
  3. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘create ready the way of the boss! create his paths straight!’”
  4. John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching the baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins.
  5. All the country of Judea and all those of Jerusalem went out to him. They were baptized by him in the Jordan river, confessing their sins.
  6. John was clothed with camel’s hair and a leather belt around his waist. He ate locusts and wild honey.
  7. He preached, saying, “After me comes he who is mightier than I, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and loosen.
  8. I baptized you in water, but he will baptize you in the set apart Spirit.”
  9. It happened in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized by John in the Jordan.
 10. Immediately coming up from the water, he checked out the heavens parting, and the Spirit descending on him like a dove.
 11. A voice came out of the sky, “You are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.”
 12. Immediately the Spirit drove him out into the wilderness.
 13. He was there in the wilderness forty days tempted by Satan. He was with the wild animals; and the angels were serving him.
 14. now after John was taken into custody, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the fire News of the God's squad of God,
 15. and saying, “The time is fulfilled, and the God's squad of God is at hand! turn it around, and believe in the fire News.”
 16. Passing along by the sea of Galilee, he checked out Simon and Andrew the brother of Simon casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.
 17. Jesus said to them, “come through after me, and I will create you into fishers for men.”
 18. Immediately they left their nets, and followed him.
 19. Going on a little further from there, he checked out James the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother, who were also in the boat mending the nets.
 20. Immediately he called them, and they left their father, Zebedee, in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him.
 21. They went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught.
 22. They were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as having authority, and not as the scribes.
 23. Immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out,
 24. saying, “Ha! What do we have to do with you, Jesus, you Nazarene? Have you come through to tear down us? I get it you who you are: the set apart One of God!”
 25. Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be quiet, and come through out of him!”
 26. The unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying with a loud voice, came out of him.
 27. They were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, “What is this? A new teaching? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him!”
 28. The report of him went out immediately everywhere into all the region of Galilee and its surrounding area.
 29. Immediately, when they had come through out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
 30. now Simon’s wife’s mother lay sick with a fever, and immediately they told him about her.
 31. He came and took her by the hand, and raised her up. The fever left her, and she served them.
 32. At evening, when the sun had set, they brought to him all who were sick, and those who were possessed by demons.
 33. All the city was gathered together at the door.
 34. He healed a lot who were sick with various diseases, and cast out a lot demons. He didn’t allow the demons to spill the tea, cuz they knew him.
 35. Early in the morning, while it was still dark, he rose up and went out, and departed into a deserted place, and prayed there.
 36. Simon and those who were with him followed after him;
 37. and they found him, and told him, “Everyone is looking for you.”
 38. He said to them, “Let’s slide elsewhere into the next towns, that I may preach there also, cuz I came out for this reason.”
 39. He went into their synagogues throughout all Galilee, preaching and casting out demons.
 40. A leper came to him, begging him, kneeling down to him, and saying to him, “If you want to, you can create me clean.”
 41. Being moved with compassion, he stretched out his hand, and touched him, and said to him, “I want to. Be made clean.”
 42. When he had said this, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was made clean.
 43. He strictly warned him, and immediately sent him out,
 44. and said to him, “check it out you say nothing to anybody, but slide show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.”
 45. But he went out, and began to proclaim it much, and to spread about the matter, so that Jesus could no more openly enter into a city, but was outside in desert places: and they came to him from everywhere.

# Mark Chapter 2

  1. When he entered again into Capernaum after some days, it was heard that he was in the house.
  2. Immediately a lot were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even around the door; and he spoke the word to them.
  3. Four people came, carrying a paralytic to him.
  4. When they could not come through near to him for the crowd, they removed the roof where he was. When they had broken it up, they let down the mat that the paralytic was lying on.
  5. Jesus, seeing their trusting the process, said to the paralytic, “Son, your sins are forgiven you.”
  6. But there were some of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts,
  7. “Why does this man spill the tea blasphemies like that? Who can forgive sins but God alone?”
  8. Immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, said to them, “Why do you reason these things in your hearts?
  9. Which is easier, to tell the paralytic, ‘Your sins are forgiven;’ or to say, ‘Arise, and grab up your bed, and walk?’
 10. But that you may get it that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins”—he said to the paralytic—
 11. “I tell you, arise, grab up your mat, and slide to your house.”
 12. He arose, and immediately took up the mat, and went out in front of them all; so that they were all amazed, and glorified God, saying, “We never checked out anything like this!”
 13. He went out again by the seaside. All the multitude came to him, and he taught them.
 14. As he passed by, he checked out Levi, the son of Alphaeus, sitting at the tax office, and he said to him, “roll with me.” And he arose and followed him.
 15. It happened, that he was reclining at the table in his house, and a lot tax collectors and sinners sat down with Jesus and his disciples, for there were a lot, and they followed him.
 16. The scribes and the Pharisees, when they checked out that he was eating with the sinners and tax collectors, said to his disciples, “Why is it that he eats and drinks with tax collectors and sinners?”
 17. When Jesus heard it, he said to them, “Those who are healthy have no need for a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the doing what's right, but sinners to repentance.”
 18. John’s disciples and the Pharisees were fasting, and they came and asked him, “Why do John’s disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples don’t fast?”
 19. Jesus said to them, “Can the groomsmen fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they can’t fast.
 20. But the days will come through when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then will they fast in that day.
 21. No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, or else the patch shrinks and the new tears away from the old, and a worse hole is made.
 22. No one puts new wine into old wineskins, or else the new wine will burst the skins, and the wine pours out, and the skins will be destroyed; but they put new wine into fresh wineskins.”
 23. It happened that he was going on the Sabbath day through the grain fields, and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the ears of grain.
 24. The Pharisees said to him, “check this out, why do they do that which is not lawful on the Sabbath day?”
 25. He said to them, “Did you never read what David did, when he had need, and was hungry—he, and those who were with him?
 26. How he entered into the house of God when Abiathar was high priest, and ate the show bread, which is not lawful to eat except for the priests, and gave also to those who were with him?”
 27. He said to them, “The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.
 28. so basically the Son of Man is boss even of the Sabbath.”

# Mark Chapter 3

  1. He entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man there who had his hand withered.
  2. They watched him, whether he would heal him on the Sabbath day, that they might accuse him.
  3. He said to the man who had his hand withered, “Stand up.”
  4. He said to them, “Is it lawful on the Sabbath day to do fire, or to do harm? To rescue a life, or to kill?” But they were silent.
  5. When he had looked around at them with anger, being grieved at the hardening of their hearts, he said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He stretched it out, and his hand was restored as healthy as the other.
  6. The Pharisees went out, and immediately conspired with the Herodians against him, how they might tear down him.
  7. Jesus withdrew to the sea with his disciples, and a major multitude followed him from Galilee, from Judea,
  8. from Jerusalem, from Idumaea, beyond the Jordan, and those from around Tyre and Sidon. A major multitude, hearing what major things he did, came to him.
  9. He spoke to his disciples that a little boat should stay near him cuz of the crowd, so that they wouldn’t press on him.
 10. For he had healed a lot, so that as a lot as had diseases pressed on him that they might touch him.
 11. The unclean spirits, whenever they checked out him, fell down before him, and cried, “You are the Son of God!”
 12. He sternly warned them that they should not create him known.
 13. He went up into the mountain, and called to himself those whom he wanted, and they went to him.
 14. He appointed twelve, that they might be with him, and that he might send them out to preach,
 15. and to have authority to heal sicknesses and to cast out demons:
 16. Simon, to whom he gave the name Peter;
 17. James the son of Zebedee; John, the brother of James, and he surnamed them Boanerges, which means, Sons of Thunder;
 18. Andrew; Philip; Bartholomew; Matthew; Thomas; James, the son of Alphaeus; Thaddaeus; Simon the Zealot;
 19. and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him. He came into a house.
 20. The multitude came together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread.
 21. When his friends heard it, they went out to seize him: for they said, “He is insane.”
 22. The scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, “He has Beelzebul,” and, “By the prince of the demons he casts out the demons.”
 23. He summoned them, and said to them in parables, “How can Satan cast out Satan?
 24. If a God's squad is divided against itself, that God's squad cannot stand.
 25. If a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand.
 26. If Satan has risen up against himself, and is divided, he can’t stand, but has an end.
 27. But no one can enter into the house of the built different man to plunder, unless he first binds the built different man; and then he will plunder his house.
 28. Most for sure I tell you, all sins of the descendants of man will be forgiven, including their blasphemies with which they may blaspheme;
 29. but whoever may blaspheme against the set apart Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal messing up”
 30. —cuz they said, “He has an unclean spirit.”
 31. His mother and his brothers came, and standing outside, they sent to him, calling him.
 32. A multitude was sitting around him, and they told him, “check this out, your mother, your brothers, and your sisters are outside looking for you.”
 33. He answered them, “Who are my mother and my brothers?”
 34. Looking around at those who sat around him, he said, “check this out, my mother and my brothers!
 35. For whoever does the will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister, and mother.”

# Mark Chapter 4

  1. Again he began to drop knowledge by the seaside. A major multitude was gathered to him, so that he entered into a boat in the sea, and sat down. All the multitude were on the land by the sea.
  2. He taught them a lot things in parables, and told them in his teaching,
  3. “listen up! check this out, the farmer went out to sow,
  4. and it happened, as he sowed, some seed fell by the road, and the birds came and devoured it.
  5. Others fell on the rocky ground, where it had little soil, and immediately it sprang up, cuz it had no depth of soil.
  6. When the sun had risen, it was scorched; and cuz it had no root, it withered away.
  7. Others fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit.
  8. Others fell into the fire ground, and yielded fruit, growing up and increasing. Some brought forth thirty times, some sixty times, and some one hundred times as much.”
  9. He said, “Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear.”
 10. When he was alone, those who were around him with the twelve asked him about the parables.
 11. He said to them, “To you is given the mystery of the God's squad of God, but to those who are outside, all things are done in parables,
 12. that ‘seeing they may check it out, and not perceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand; lest perhaps they should turn again, and their sins should be forgiven them.’”
 13. He said to them, “Don’t you understand this parable? How will you understand all of the parables?
 14. The farmer sows the word.
 15. The ones by the road are the ones where the word is sown; and when they have heard, immediately Satan comes, and takes away the word which has been sown in them.
 16. These in the same way are those who are sown on the rocky places, who, when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with joy.
 17. They have no root in themselves, but are short-lived. When oppression or persecution arises cuz of the word, immediately they stumble.
 18. Others are those who are sown among the thorns. These are those who have heard the word,
 19. and the cares of this age, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things entering in choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful.
 20. Those which were sown on the fire ground are those who hear the word, and accept it, and bear fruit, some thirty times, some sixty times, and some one hundred times.”
 21. He said to them, “Is the lamp brought to be put under a basket or under a bed? Isn’t it put on a stand?
 22. For there is nothing hidden, except that it should be made known; neither was anything made secret, but that it should come through to light.
 23. If any man has ears to hear, let him hear.”
 24. He said to them, “grab heed what you hear. With whatever measure you measure, it will be measured to you, and more will be given to you who hear.
 25. For whoever has, to him will more be given, and he who doesn’t have, even that which he has will be taken away from him.”
 26. He said, “The God's squad of God is as if a man should cast seed on the earth,
 27. and should sleep and rise night and day, and the seed should spring up and grow, he doesn’t get it how.
 28. For the earth bears fruit: first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear.
 29. But when the fruit is ripe, immediately he puts forth the sickle, cuz the harvest has come through.”
 30. He said, “How will we liken the God's squad of God? Or with what parable will we illustrate it?
 31. It’s like a grain of mustard seed, which, when it is sown in the earth, though it is less than all the seeds that are on the earth,
 32. yet when it is sown, grows up, and becomes greater than all the herbs, and puts out major branches, so that the birds of the sky can lodge under its shadow.”
 33. With a lot such parables he spoke the word to them, as they were able to hear it.
 34. Without a parable he didn’t spill the tea to them; but privately to his own disciples he explained everything.
 35. On that day, when evening had come through, he said to them, “Let’s slide over to the other side.”
 36. Leaving the multitude, they took him with them, even as he was, in the boat. Other tiny boats were also with him.
 37. A huge wind storm arose, and the waves beat into the boat, so much that the boat was already filled.
 38. He himself was in the stern, asleep on the cushion, and they woke him up, and told him, “Teacher, don’t you care that we are dying?”
 39. He awoke, and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, “Peace! Be still!” The wind ceased, and there was a major calm.
 40. He said to them, “Why are you so scared? How is it that you have no trusting the process?”
 41. They were greatly scared, and said to one another, “Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?”

# Mark Chapter 5

  1. They came to the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gadarenes.
  2. When he had come through out of the boat, immediately a man with an unclean spirit met him out of the tombs.
  3. He lived in the tombs. Nobody could bind him any more, not even with chains,
  4. cuz he had been a lot bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been torn apart by him, and the fetters broken in pieces. Nobody had the strength to tame him.
  5. always, night and day, in the tombs and in the mountains, he was crying out, and cutting himself with stones.
  6. When he checked out Jesus from afar, he ran and bowed down to him,
  7. and crying out with a loud voice, he said, “What have I to do with you, Jesus, you Son of the Most High God? I adjure you by God, don’t torment me.”
  8. For he said to him, “come through out of the man, you unclean spirit!”
  9. He asked him, “What is your name?” He said to him, “My name is Legion, for we are a lot.”
 10. He begged him much that he would not send them away out of the country.
 11. now on the mountainside there was a major herd of pigs feeding.
 12. All the demons begged him, saying, “Send us into the pigs, that we may enter into them.”
 13. At once Jesus gave them permission. The unclean spirits came out and entered into the pigs. The herd of about two thousand rushed down the steep bank into the sea, and they were drowned in the sea.
 14. Those who fed them fled, and told it in the city and in the country. The people came to check it out what it was that had happened.
 15. They came to Jesus, and checked out him who had been possessed by demons sitting, clothed, and in his right mind, even him who had the legion; and they were scared.
 16. Those who checked out it declared to them how it happened to him who was possessed by demons, and about the pigs.
 17. They began to beg him to depart from their region.
 18. As he was entering into the boat, he who had been possessed by demons begged him that he might be with him.
 19. He didn’t allow him, but said to him, “slide to your house, to your friends, and tell them what major things the boss has done for you, and how he had mercy on you.”
 20. He went his way, and began to proclaim in Decapolis how Jesus had done major things for him, and everyone marveled.
 21. When Jesus had crossed back over in the boat to the other side, a major multitude was gathered to him; and he was by the sea.
 22. check this out, one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name, came; and seeing him, he fell at his feet,
 23. and begged him much, saying, “My little daughter is at the point of death. Please come through and lay your hands on her, that she may be made healthy, and live.”
 24. He went with him, and a major multitude followed him, and they pressed upon him on all sides.
 25. A certain woman, who had an issue of blood for twelve years,
 26. and had suffered a lot things by a lot physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was no better, but rather grew worse,
 27. having heard the things concerning Jesus, came up behind him in the crowd, and touched his clothes.
 28. For she said, “If I just touch his clothes, I will be made well.”
 29. Immediately the flow of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of her affliction.
 30. Immediately Jesus, perceiving in himself that the power had gone out from him, turned around in the crowd, and asked, “Who touched my clothes?”
 31. His disciples said to him, “You check it out the multitude pressing against you, and you say, ‘Who touched me?’”
 32. He looked around to check it out her who had done this thing.
 33. But the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what had been done to her, came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth.
 34. He said to her, “Daughter, your trusting the process has made you well. slide in peace, and be cured of your disease.”
 35. While he was still speaking, people came from the synagogue ruler’s house saying, “Your daughter is dead. Why bother the Teacher any more?”
 36. But Jesus, when he heard the message spoken, immediately said to the ruler of the synagogue, “Don’t be scared, only believe.”
 37. He allowed no one to roll with him, except Peter, James, and John the brother of James.
 38. He came to the synagogue ruler’s house, and he checked out an uproar, weeping, and major wailing.
 39. When he had entered in, he said to them, “Why do you create an uproar and weep? The child is not dead, but is asleep.”
 40. They ridiculed him. But he, having put them all out, took the father of the child, her mother, and those who were with him, and went in where the child was lying.
 41. Taking the child by the hand, he said to her, “Talitha cumi!” which means, being interpreted, “Girl, I tell you, get up!”
 42. Immediately the girl rose up and walked, for she was twelve years old. They were amazed with major amazement.
 43. He strictly ordered them that no one should get it this, and commanded that something should be given to her to eat.

# Mark Chapter 6

  1. He went out from there. He came into his own country, and his disciples followed him.
  2. When the Sabbath had come through, he began to drop knowledge in the synagogue, and a lot hearing him were astonished, saying, “Where did this man get these things?” and, “What is the wisdom that is given to this man, that such mighty works come through about by his hands?
  3. Isn’t this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James, Joses, Judah, and Simon? Aren’t his sisters here with us?” They were offended at him.
  4. Jesus said to them, “A God's messenger is not without honor, except in his own country, and among his own relatives, and in his own house.”
  5. He could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a not much sick people, and healed them.
  6. He marveled cuz of their unbelief. He went around the villages teaching.
  7. He called to himself the twelve, and began to send them out two by two; and he gave them authority over the unclean spirits.
  8. He commanded them that they should grab nothing for their journey, except a staff only: no bread, no wallet, no money in their purse,
  9. but to wear sandals, and not put on two tunics.
 10. He said to them, “Wherever you enter into a house, stay there until you depart from there.
 11. Whoever will not receive you nor hear you, as you depart from there, shake off the dust that is under your feet for a testimony against them. Assuredly, I tell you, it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city!”
 12. They went out and preached that people should turn it around.
 13. They cast out a lot demons, and anointed a lot with oil who were sick, and healed them.
 14. ruler Herod heard this, for his name had become known, and he said, “John the Baptizer has risen from the dead, and so basically these powers are at work in him.”
 15. But others said, “He is Elijah.” Others said, “He is a God's messenger, or like one of the prophets.”
 16. But Herod, when he heard this, said, “This is John, whom I beheaded. He has risen from the dead.”
 17. For Herod himself had sent out and arrested John, and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife, for he had married her.
 18. For John said to Herod, “It is not lawful for you to have your brother’s wife.”
 19. Herodias set herself against him, and desired to kill him, but she couldn’t,
 20. for Herod feared John, knowing that he was a doing what's right and set apart man, and kept him safe. When he heard him, he did a lot things, and he heard him gladly.
 21. then a convenient day came, that Herod on his birthday made a supper for his nobles, the high officers, and the chief men of Galilee.
 22. When the daughter of Herodias herself came in and danced, she pleased Herod and those sitting with him. The ruler said to the young lady, “Ask me whatever you want, and I will hook it up it to you.”
 23. He swore to her, “Whatever you shall ask of me, I will hook it up you, up to half of my God's squad.”
 24. She went out, and said to her mother, “What shall I ask?” She said, “The head of John the Baptizer.”
 25. She came in immediately with haste to the ruler, and asked, “I want you to hook it up me right now the head of John the Baptizer on a platter.”
 26. The ruler was exceedingly sorry, but for the sake of his oaths, and of his dinner guests, he didn’t wish to refuse her.
 27. Immediately the ruler sent out a soldier of his guard, and commanded to bring John’s head, and he went and beheaded him in the prison,
 28. and brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the young lady; and the young lady gave it to her mother.
 29. When his disciples heard this, they came and took up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb.
 30. The apostles gathered themselves together to Jesus, and they told him all things, whatever they had done, and whatever they had taught.
 31. He said to them, “You come through apart into a deserted place, and rest awhile.” For there were a lot coming and going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat.
 32. They went away in the boat to a deserted place by themselves.
 33. They checked out them going, and a lot recognized him and ran there on foot from all the cities. They arrived before them and came together to him.
 34. Jesus came out, checked out a major multitude, and he had compassion on them, cuz they were like sheep without a shepherd, and he began to drop knowledge them a lot things.
 35. When it was late in the day, his disciples came to him, and said, “This place is deserted, and it is late in the day.
 36. Send them away, that they may slide into the surrounding country and villages, and buy themselves bread, for they have nothing to eat.”
 37. But he answered them, “You hook it up them something to eat.” They asked him, “Shall we slide and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread, and hook it up them something to eat?”
 38. He said to them, “How a lot loaves do you have? slide check it out.” When they knew, they said, “Five, and two fish.”
 39. He commanded them that everyone should sit down in groups on the green grass.
 40. They sat down in ranks, by hundreds and by fifties.
 41. He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, he blessed up and broke the loaves, and he gave to his disciples to set before them, and he divided the two fish among them all.
 42. They all ate, and were filled.
 43. They took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces and also of the fish.
 44. Those who ate the loaves were five thousand men.
 45. Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat, and to slide ahead to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he himself sent the multitude away.
 46. After he had taken leave of them, he went up the mountain to pray.
 47. When evening had come through, the boat was in the midst of the sea, and he was alone on the land.
 48. Seeing them distressed in rowing, for the wind was contrary to them, about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea, and he would have passed by them,
 49. but they, when they checked out him walking on the sea, supposed that it was a ghost, and cried out;
 50. for they all checked out him, and were troubled. But he immediately spoke with them, and said to them, “Cheer up! It is I! Don’t be scared.”
 51. He got into the boat with them; and the wind ceased, and they were hella amazed among themselves, and marveled;
 52. for they hadn’t understood about the loaves, but their hearts were hardened.
 53. When they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret, and moored to the shore.
 54. When they had come through out of the boat, immediately the people recognized him,
 55. and ran around that whole region, and began to bring those who were sick, on their mats, to where they heard he was.
 56. Wherever he entered, into villages, or into cities, or into the country, they laid the sick in the marketplaces, and begged him that they might touch just the fringe of his garment; and as a lot as touched him were made well.

# Mark Chapter 7

  1. then the Pharisees, and some of the scribes gathered together to him, having come through from Jerusalem.
  2. now when they checked out some of his disciples eating bread with defiled, that is, unwashed, hands, they found fault.
  3. (For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, don’t eat unless they wash their hands and forearms, holding to the tradition of the elders.
  4. They don’t eat when they come through from the marketplace, unless they bathe themselves, and there are a lot other things, which they have received to hold to: washings of cups, pitchers, bronze vessels, and couches.)
  5. The Pharisees and the scribes asked him, “Why don’t your disciples walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with unwashed hands?”
  6. He answered them, “Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, ‘This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.
  7. But in vain do they giving props me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.’
  8. “For you set aside the commandment of God, and hold tightly to the tradition of men—the washing of pitchers and cups, and you do a lot other such things.”
  9. He said to them, “Full well do you reject the commandment of God, that you may keep your tradition.
 10. For Moses said, ‘Honor your father and your mother;’ and, ‘He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.’
 11. But you say, ‘If a man tells his father or his mother, “Whatever profit you might have received from me is Corban, that is to say, given to God;”’
 12. then you no longer allow him to do anything for his father or his mother,
 13. making void the word of God by your tradition, which you have handed down. You do a lot things like this.”
 14. He called all the multitude to himself, and said to them, “Hear me, all of you, and understand.
 15. there is nothing from outside of the man, that going into him can defile him; but the things which proceed out of the man are those that defile the man.
 16. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear!”
 17. When he had entered into a house away from the multitude, his disciples asked him about the parable.
 18. He said to them, “Are you thus without understanding also? Don’t you perceive that whatever goes into the man from outside can’t defile him,
 19. cuz it doesn’t slide into his heart, but into his stomach, then into the latrine, thus purifying all foods?”
 20. He said, “That which proceeds out of the man, that defiles the man.
 21. For from within, out of the hearts of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, sexual sins, murders, thefts,
 22. covetings, wickedness, deceit, lustful desires, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, and foolishness.
 23. All these evil things come through from within, and defile the man.”
 24. From there he arose, and went away into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. He entered into a house, and didn’t want anyone to get it it, but he couldn’t escape notice.
 25. For a woman, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, having heard of him, came and fell down at his feet.
 26. now the woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by race. She begged him that he would cast the demon out of her daughter.
 27. But Jesus said to her, “Let the children be filled first, for it is not appropriate to grab the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.”
 28. But she answered him, “Yes, boss. Yet even the dogs under the table eat the children’s crumbs.”
 29. He said to her, “For this saying, slide your way. The demon has gone out of your daughter.”
 30. She went away to her house, and found the child having been laid on the bed, with the demon gone out.
 31. Again he departed from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and came to the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the region of Decapolis.
 32. They brought to him one who was deaf and had an impediment in his speech. They begged him to lay his hand on him.
 33. He took him aside from the multitude, privately, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spat, and touched his tongue.
 34. Looking up to heaven, he sighed, and said to him, “Ephphatha!” that is, “Be opened!”
 35. Immediately his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was released, and he spoke clearly.
 36. He commanded them that they should tell no one, but the more he commanded them, so much the more widely they proclaimed it.
 37. They were astonished beyond measure, saying, “He has done all things well. He makes even the deaf hear, and the mute spill the tea!”

# Mark Chapter 8

  1. In those days, when there was a hella major multitude, and they had nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples to himself, and said to them,
  2. “I have compassion on the multitude, cuz they have stayed with me now three days, and have nothing to eat.
  3. If I send them away fasting to their home, they will faint on the way, for some of them have come through a long way.”
  4. His disciples answered him, “From where could one satisfy these people with bread here in a deserted place?”
  5. He asked them, “How a lot loaves do you have?” They said, “Seven.”
  6. He commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground, and he took the seven loaves. Having given thanks, he broke them, and gave them to his disciples to help out, and they served the multitude.
  7. They had a not much tiny fish. Having blessed up them, he said to help out these also.
  8. They ate, and were filled. They took up seven baskets of broken pieces that were left over.
  9. Those who had eaten were about four thousand. then he sent them away.
 10. Immediately he entered into the boat with his disciples, and came into the region of Dalmanutha.
 11. The Pharisees came out and began to question him, seeking from him a sign from heaven, and testing him.
 12. He sighed deeply in his spirit, and said, “Why does this generation seek a sign? Most for sure I tell you, no sign will be given to this generation.”
 13. He left them, and again entering into the boat, departed to the other side.
 14. They forgot to grab bread; and they didn’t have more than one loaf in the boat with them.
 15. He warned them, saying, “grab heed: beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and the yeast of Herod.”
 16. They reasoned with one another, saying, “It’s cuz we have no bread.”
 17. Jesus, perceiving it, said to them, “Why do you reason that it’s cuz you have no bread? Don’t you perceive yet, neither understand? Is your heart still hardened?
 18. Having eyes, don’t you check it out? Having ears, don’t you hear? Don’t you remember?
 19. When I broke the five loaves among the five thousand, how a lot baskets full of broken pieces did you grab up?” They told him, “Twelve.”
 20. “When the seven loaves fed the four thousand, how a lot baskets full of broken pieces did you grab up?” They told him, “Seven.”
 21. He asked them, “Don’t you understand, yet?”
 22. He came to Bethsaida. They brought a blind man to him, and begged him to touch him.
 23. He took hold of the blind man by the hand, and brought him out of the village. When he had spit on his eyes, and laid his hands on him, he asked him if he checked out anything.
 24. He looked up, and said, “I check it out men; for I check it out them like trees walking.”
 25. then again he laid his hands on his eyes. He looked intently, and was restored, and checked out everyone clearly.
 26. He sent him away to his house, saying, “Don’t enter into the village, nor tell anyone in the village.”
 27. Jesus went out, with his disciples, into the villages of Caesarea Philippi. On the way he asked his disciples, “Who do men say that I am?”
 28. They told him, “John the Baptizer, and others say Elijah, but others: one of the prophets.”
 29. He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?” Peter answered, “You are the anointed one.”
 30. He commanded them that they should tell no one about him.
 31. He began to drop knowledge them that the Son of Man must suffer a lot things, and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests, and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again.
 32. He spoke to them openly. Peter took him, and began to rebuke him.
 33. But he, turning around, and seeing his disciples, rebuked Peter, and said, “Get behind me, Satan! For you have in mind not the things of God, but the things of men.”
 34. He called the multitude to himself with his disciples, and said to them, “Whoever wants to come through after me, let him deny himself, and grab up his cross, and roll with me.
 35. For whoever wants to rescue his life will lose it; and whoever will lose his life for my sake and the sake of the fire News will rescue it.
 36. For what does it profit a man, to gain the whole world, and forfeit his life?
 37. For what will a man hook it up in exchange for his life?
 38. For whoever will be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man also will be ashamed of him, when he comes in the glory of his Father with the set apart angels.”

# Mark Chapter 9

  1. He said to them, “Most for sure I tell you, there are some standing here who will in no way taste death until they check it out the God's squad of God come through with power.”
  2. After six days Jesus took with him Peter, James, and John, and brought them up onto a high mountain privately by themselves, and he was changed into another form in front of them.
  3. His clothing became glistening, exceedingly white, like snow, such as no launderer on earth can whiten them.
  4. Elijah and Moses appeared to them, and they were talking with Jesus.
  5. Peter answered Jesus, “teacher, it is fire for us to be here. Let’s create three tents: one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”
  6. For he didn’t get it what to say, for they were hella scared.
  7. A cloud came, overshadowing them, and a voice came out of the cloud, “This is my beloved Son. listen up to him.”
  8. Suddenly looking around, they checked out no one with them any more, except Jesus only.
  9. As they were coming down from the mountain, he commanded them that they should tell no one what things they had seen, until after the Son of Man had risen from the dead.
 10. They kept this saying to themselves, questioning what the “rising from the dead” meant.
 11. They asked him, saying, “Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come through first?”
 12. He said to them, “Elijah facts comes first, and restores all things. How is it written about the Son of Man, that he should suffer a lot things and be despised?
 13. But I tell you that Elijah has come through, and they have also done to him whatever they wanted to, even as it is written about him.”
 14. Coming to the disciples, he checked out a major multitude around them, and scribes questioning them.
 15. Immediately all the multitude, when they checked out him, were greatly amazed, and running to him greeted him.
 16. He asked the scribes, “What are you asking them?”
 17. One of the multitude answered, “Teacher, I brought to you my son, who has a mute spirit;
 18. and wherever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams at the mouth, and grinds his teeth, and wastes away. I asked your disciples to cast it out, and they weren’t able.”
 19. He answered him, “Unbelieving generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to me.”
 20. They brought him to him, and when he checked out him, immediately the spirit convulsed him, and he fell on the ground, wallowing and foaming at the mouth.
 21. He asked his father, “How long has it been since this has come through to him?” He said, “From childhood.
 22. a lot it has cast him both into the fire and into the water, to tear down him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us, and help out us.”
 23. Jesus said to him, “If you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes.”
 24. Immediately the father of the child cried out with tears, “I believe. help out my unbelief!”
 25. When Jesus checked out that a multitude came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to him, “You mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come through out of him, and never enter him again!”
 26. Having cried out, and convulsed greatly, it came out of him. The boy became like one dead; so much that most of them said, “He is dead.”
 27. But Jesus took him by the hand, and raised him up; and he arose.
 28. When he had come through into the house, his disciples asked him privately, “Why couldn’t we cast it out?”
 29. He said to them, “This kind can come through out by nothing, except by talking to God and fasting.”
 30. They went out from there, and passed through Galilee. He didn’t want anyone to get it it.
 31. For he was teaching his disciples, and said to them, “The Son of Man is being handed over to the hands of men, and they will kill him; and when he is killed, on the day three he will rise again.”
 32. But they didn’t understand the saying, and were scared to ask him.
 33. He came to Capernaum, and when he was in the house he asked them, “What were you arguing among yourselves on the way?”
 34. But they were silent, for they had disputed one with another on the way about who was the greatest.
 35. He sat down, and called the twelve; and he said to them, “If any man wants to be first, he shall be last of all, and helper of all.”
 36. He took a little child, and set him in their midst. Taking him in his arms, he said to them,
 37. “Whoever receives one such little child in my name, receives me, and whoever receives me, doesn’t receive me, but him who sent me.”
 38. John said to him, “Teacher, we checked out someone who doesn’t roll with us casting out demons in your name; and we forbade him, cuz he doesn’t roll with us.”
 39. But Jesus said, “Don’t forbid him, for there is no one who will do a mighty work in my name, and be able quickly to spill the tea evil of me.
 40. For whoever is not against us is on our side.
 41. For whoever will hook it up you a cup of water to drink in my name, cuz you are anointed one’s, most for sure I tell you, he will in no way lose his reward.
 42. Whoever will cause one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better for him if he were thrown into the sea with a millstone hung around his neck.
 43. If your hand causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter into life maimed, rather than having your two hands to slide into Gehenna, into the unquenchable fire,
 44. ‘where their worm doesn’t die, and the fire is not quenched.’
 45. If your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter into life lame, rather than having your two feet to be cast into Gehenna, into the fire that will never be quenched—
 46. ‘where their worm doesn’t die, and the fire is not quenched.’
 47. If your eye causes you to stumble, cast it out. It is better for you to enter into the God's squad of God with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into the Gehenna of fire,
 48. ‘where their worm doesn’t die, and the fire is not quenched.’
 49. For everyone will be salted with fire, and every giving it up will be seasoned with salt.
 50. Salt is fire, but if the salt has lost its saltiness, with what will you season it? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one another.”

# Mark Chapter 10

  1. He arose from there and came into the borders of Judea and beyond the Jordan. Multitudes came together to him again. As he usually did, he was again teaching them.
  2. Pharisees came to him testing him, and asked him, “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?”
  3. He answered, “What did Moses command you?”
  4. They said, “Moses allowed a certificate of divorce to be written, and to divorce her.”
  5. But Jesus said to them, “For your hardness of heart, he wrote you this commandment.
  6. But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female.
  7. For this cause a man will leave his father and mother, and will join to his wife,
  8. and the two will become one flesh, so that they are no longer two, but one flesh.
  9. What so basically God has joined together, let no man separate.”
 10. In the house, his disciples asked him again about the same matter.
 11. He said to them, “Whoever divorces his wife, and marries another, commits adultery against her.
 12. If a woman herself divorces her husband, and marries another, she commits adultery.”
 13. They were bringing to him little children, that he should touch them, but the disciples rebuked those who were bringing them.
 14. But when Jesus checked out it, he was moved with indignation, and said to them, “Allow the little children to come through to me! Don’t forbid them, for the God's squad of God belongs to such as these.
 15. Most for sure I tell you, whoever will not receive the God's squad of God like a little child, he will in no way enter into it.”
 16. He took them in his arms, and blessed up them, laying his hands on them.
 17. As he was going out into the way, one ran to him, knelt before him, and asked him, “fire Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit living forever?”
 18. Jesus said to him, “Why do you call me fire? No one is fire except one—God.
 19. You get it the commandments: ‘Do not murder,’ ‘Do not commit adultery,’ ‘Do not steal,’ ‘Do not hook it up false testimony,’ ‘Do not defraud,’ ‘Honor your father and mother.’”
 20. He said to him, “Teacher, I have observed all these things from my youth.”
 21. Jesus looking at him loved him, and said to him, “One thing you lack. slide, sell whatever you have, and hook it up to the broke, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come through, roll with me, taking up the cross.”
 22. But his face fell at that saying, and he went away sorrowful, for he was one who had major possessions.
 23. Jesus looked around, and said to his disciples, “How difficult it is for those who have riches to enter into the God's squad of God!”
 24. The disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus answered again, “Children, how hard is it for those who trust in riches to enter into the God's squad of God!
 25. It is easier for a camel to slide through a needle’s eye than for a stacked man to enter into the God's squad of God.”
 26. They were exceedingly astonished, saying to him, “then who can be saved?”
 27. Jesus, looking at them, said, “With men it is impossible, but not with God, for all things are possible with God.”
 28. Peter began to tell him, “check this out, we have left all, and have followed you.”
 29. Jesus said, “Most for sure I tell you, there is no one who has left house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or land, for my sake, and for the sake of the fire News,
 30. but he will receive one hundred times more now in this time, houses, brothers, sisters, mothers, children, and land, with persecutions; and in the age to come through living forever.
 31. But a lot who are first will be last; and the last first.”
 32. They were on the way, going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus was going in front of them, and they were amazed; and those who followed were scared. He again took the twelve, and began to tell them the things that were going to happen to him.
 33. “check this out, we are going up to Jerusalem. The Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes. They will condemn him to death, and will deliver him to the Gentiles.
 34. They will mock him, spit on him, scourge him, and kill him. On the day three he will rise again.”
 35. James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came near to him, saying, “Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we will ask.”
 36. He said to them, “What do you want me to do for you?”
 37. They said to him, “Grant to us that we may sit, one at your right hand, and one at your left hand, in your glory.”
 38. But Jesus said to them, “You don’t get it what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?”
 39. They said to him, “We are able.” Jesus said to them, “You shall facts drink the cup that I drink, and you shall be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with;
 40. but to sit at my right hand and at my left hand is not mine to hook it up, but for whom it has been prepared.”
 41. When the ten heard it, they began to be indignant towards James and John.
 42. Jesus summoned them, and said to them, “You get it that they who are recognized as rulers over the nations boss it over them, and their major ones exercise authority over them.
 43. But it shall not be so among you, but whoever wants to become major among you shall be your helper.
 44. Whoever of you wants to become first among you, shall be bondservant of all.
 45. For the Son of Man also came not to be served, but to help out, and to hook it up his life as a ransom for a lot.”
 46. They came to Jericho. As he went out from Jericho, with his disciples and a major multitude, the son of Timaeus, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, was sitting by the road.
 47. When he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out, and say, “Jesus, you son of David, have mercy on me!”
 48. a lot rebuked him, that he should be quiet, but he cried out much more, “You son of David, have mercy on me!”
 49. Jesus stood still, and said, “Call him.” They called the blind man, saying to him, “Cheer up! Get up. He is calling you!”
 50. He, casting away his cloak, sprang up, and came to Jesus.
 51. Jesus asked him, “What do you want me to do for you?” The blind man said to him, “Rabboni, that I may check it out again.”
 52. Jesus said to him, “slide your way. Your trusting the process has made you well.” Immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.

# Mark Chapter 11

  1. When they drew near to Jerusalem, to Bethsphage and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
  2. and said to them, “slide your way into the village that is opposite you. Immediately as you enter into it, you will find a young donkey tied, on which no one has sat. Untie him, and bring him.
  3. If anyone asks you, ‘Why are you doing this?’ say, ‘The boss needs him;’ and immediately he will send him back here.”
  4. They went away, and found a young donkey tied at the door outside in the open street, and they untied him.
  5. Some of those who stood there asked them, “What are you doing, untying the young donkey?”
  6. They said to them just as Jesus had said, and they let them slide.
  7. They brought the young donkey to Jesus, and threw their garments on it, and Jesus sat on it.
  8. a lot spread their garments on the way, and others were cutting down branches from the trees, and spreading them on the road.
  9. Those who went in front, and those who followed, cried out, “save us! blessed up is he who comes in the name of the boss!
 10. blessed up is the God's squad of our father David that is coming in the name of the boss! save us in the highest!”
 11. Jesus entered into the God's house in Jerusalem. When he had looked around at everything, it being now evening, he went out to Bethany with the twelve.
 12. The next day, when they had come through out from Bethany, he was hungry.
 13. Seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came to check it out if perhaps he might find anything on it. When he came to it, he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs.
 14. Jesus told it, “May no one ever eat fruit from you again!” and his disciples heard it.
 15. They came to Jerusalem, and Jesus entered into the God's house, and began to throw out those who sold and those who bought in the God's house, and overthrew the tables of the money changers, and the seats of those who sold the doves.
 16. He would not allow anyone to carry a container through the God's house.
 17. He taught, saying to them, “Isn’t it written, ‘My house will be called a house of talking to God for all the nations?’ But you have made it a den of robbers!”
 18. The chief priests and the scribes heard it, and sought how they might tear down him. For they feared him, cuz all the multitude was astonished at his teaching.
 19. When evening came, he went out of the city.
 20. As they passed by in the morning, they checked out the fig tree withered away from the roots.
 21. Peter, remembering, said to him, “teacher, look! The fig tree which you cursed has withered away.”
 22. Jesus answered them, “Have trusting the process in God.
 23. For most for sure I tell you, whoever may tell this mountain, ‘Be taken up and cast into the sea,’ and doesn’t doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says is happening; he shall have whatever he says.
 24. so basically I tell you, all things whatever you pray and ask for, believe that you have received them, and you shall have them.
 25. Whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone; so that your Father, who is in heaven, may also forgive you your transgressions.
 26. But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father in heaven forgive your transgressions.”
 27. They came again to Jerusalem, and as he was walking in the God's house, the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders came to him,
 28. and they began saying to him, “By what authority do you do these things? Or who gave you this authority to do these things?”
 29. Jesus said to them, “I will ask you one question. Answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
 30. The baptism of John—was it from heaven, or from men? Answer me.”
 31. They reasoned with themselves, saying, “If we should say, ‘From heaven;’ he will say, ‘Why then did you not believe him?’
 32. If we should say, ‘From men’”—they feared the people, for all held John to fr fr be a God's messenger.
 33. They answered Jesus, “We don’t get it.” Jesus said to them, “Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.”

# Mark Chapter 12

  1. He began to spill the tea to them in parables. “A man planted a vineyard, put a hedge around it, dug a pit for the winepress, built a tower, rented it out to a farmer, and went into another country.
  2. When it was time, he sent a helper to the farmer to get from the farmer his share of the fruit of the vineyard.
  3. They took him, beat him, and sent him away empty.
  4. Again, he sent another helper to them; and they threw stones at him, wounded him in the head, and sent him away shamefully treated.
  5. Again he sent another; and they killed him; and a lot others, beating some, and killing some.
  6. so basically still having one, his beloved son, he sent him last to them, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’
  7. But those farmers said among themselves, ‘This is the heir. come through, let’s kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.’
  8. They took him, killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard.
  9. What so basically will the boss of the vineyard do? He will come through and tear down the farmers, and will hook it up the vineyard to others.
 10. Haven’t you even read this Scripture: ‘The stone which the builders rejected, the same was made the head of the corner.
 11. This was from the boss, it is marvelous in our eyes’?”
 12. They tried to seize him, but they feared the multitude; for they perceived that he spoke the parable against them. They left him, and went away.
 13. They sent some of the Pharisees and of the Herodians to him, that they might trap him with words.
 14. When they had come through, they asked him, “Teacher, we get it that you are honest, and don’t defer to anyone; for you aren’t partial to anyone, but deadass drop knowledge the way of God. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?
 15. Shall we hook it up, or shall we not hook it up?” But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, “Why do you test me? Bring me a denarius, that I may check it out it.”
 16. They brought it. He said to them, “Whose is this image and inscription?” They said to him, “Caesar’s.”
 17. Jesus answered them, “Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.” They marveled greatly at him.
 18. there came to him Sadducees, who say that there is no resurrection. They asked him, saying,
 19. “Teacher, Moses wrote to us, ‘If a man’s brother dies, and leaves a wife behind him, and leaves no children, that his brother should grab his wife, and raise up offspring for his brother.’
 20. there were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and dying left no offspring.
 21. The second took her, and died, leaving no children behind him. The third likewise;
 22. and the seven took her and left no children. Last of all the woman also died.
 23. In the resurrection, when they rise, whose wife will she be of them? For the seven had her as a wife.”
 24. Jesus answered them, “Isn’t this cuz you are mistaken, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God?
 25. For when they will rise from the dead, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
 26. But about the dead, that they are raised; haven’t you read in the book of Moses, about the Bush, how God spoke to him, saying, ‘I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’?
 27. He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You are so basically badly mistaken.”
 28. One of the scribes came, and heard them questioning together. Knowing that he had answered them well, asked him, “Which commandment is the greatest of all?”
 29. Jesus answered, “The greatest is, ‘Hear, Israel, the boss our God, the boss is one:
 30. you shall show love the boss your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength.’ This is the first commandment.
 31. The second is like this, ‘You shall show love your neighbor as yourself.’ there is no other commandment greater than these.”
 32. The scribe said to him, “deadass, teacher, you have said well that he is one, and there is none other but he,
 33. and to show love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to show love his neighbor as himself, is more important than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.”
 34. When Jesus checked out that he answered wisely, he said to him, “You are not far from the God's squad of God.” No one dared ask him any question after that.
 35. Jesus responded, as he taught in the God's house, “How is it that the scribes say that the anointed one is the son of David?
 36. For David himself said in the set apart Spirit, ‘The boss said to my boss, “Sit at my right hand, until I create your enemies the footstool of your feet.”’
 37. so basically David himself calls him boss, so how can he be his son?” The common people heard him gladly.
 38. In his teaching he said to them, “Beware of the scribes, who like to walk in long robes, and to get greetings in the marketplaces,
 39. and the best seats in the synagogues, and the best places at feasts:
 40. those who devour widows’ houses, and for a pretense create long prayers. These will receive greater condemnation.”
 41. Jesus sat down opposite the treasury, and checked out how the multitude cast money into the treasury. a lot who were stacked cast in much.
 42. A broke widow came, and she cast in two tiny brass coins, which equal a quadrans coin.
 43. He called his disciples to himself, and said to them, “Most for sure I tell you, this broke widow gave more than all those who are giving into the treasury,
 44. for they all gave out of their abundance, but she, out of her poverty, gave all that she had to live on.”

# Mark Chapter 13

  1. As he went out of the God's house, one of his disciples said to him, “Teacher, check it out what kind of stones and what kind of buildings!”
  2. Jesus said to him, “Do you check it out these major buildings? there will not be left here one stone on another, which will not be thrown down.”
  3. As he sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the God's house, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked him privately,
  4. “Tell us, when will these things be? What is the sign that these things are all about to be fulfilled?”
  5. Jesus, answering, began to tell them, “Be careful that no one leads you astray.
  6. For a lot will come through in my name, saying, ‘I am he!’ and will show the way a lot astray.
  7. “When you hear of wars and rumors of wars, don’t be troubled. For those must happen, but the end is not yet.
  8. For nation will rise against nation, and God's squad against God's squad. there will be earthquakes in various places. there will be famines and troubles. These things are the beginning of birth pains.
  9. But watch yourselves, for they will deliver you up to councils. You will be beaten in synagogues. You will stand before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony to them.
 10. The fire News must first be preached to all the nations.
 11. When they show the way you away and deliver you up, don’t be anxious beforehand, or premeditate what you will say, but say whatever will be given you in that hour. For it is not you who spill the tea, but the set apart Spirit.
 12. “Brother will deliver up brother to death, and the father his child. Children will rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death.
 13. You will be hated by all men for my name’s sake, but he who endures to the end, the same will be saved.
 14. But when you check it out the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the God's messenger, standing where it ought not (let the reader understand), then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains,
 15. and let him who is on the housetop not slide down, nor enter in, to grab anything out of his house.
 16. Let him who is in the field not return back to grab his cloak.
 17. But woe to those who are with child and to those who nurse babies in those days!
 18. Pray that your flight won’t be in the winter.
 19. For in those days there will be oppression, such as there has not been the like from the beginning of the creation which God created until now, and never will be.
 20. Unless the boss had shortened the days, no flesh would have been saved; but for the sake of the chosen ones, whom he picked out, he shortened the days.
 21. then if anyone tells you, ‘Look, here is the anointed one!’ or, ‘Look, there!’ don’t believe it.
 22. For there will arise false christs and false prophets, and will show signs and wonders, that they may show the way astray, if possible, even the chosen ones.
 23. But you watch. “check this out, I have told you all things beforehand.
 24. But in those days, after that oppression, the sun will be darkened, the moon will not hook it up its light,
 25. the stars will be falling from the sky, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken.
 26. then they will check it out the Son of Man coming in clouds with major power and glory.
 27. then he will send out his angels, and will gather together his chosen ones from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of the sky.
 28. “now from the fig tree, pick up this parable. When the branch has now become tender, and puts forth its leaves, you get it that the summer is near;
 29. even so you also, when you check it out these things coming to pass, get it that it is near, at the doors.
 30. Most for sure I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things happen.
 31. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
 32. But of that day or that hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.
 33. Watch, keep alert, and pray; for you don’t get it when the time is.
 34. “It is like a man, traveling to another country, having left his house, and given authority to his servants, and to each one his work, and also commanded the doorkeeper to keep watch.
 35. Watch so basically, for you don’t get it when the boss of the house is coming, whether at evening, or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning;
 36. lest coming suddenly he might find you sleeping.
 37. What I tell you, I tell all: Watch.”

# Mark Chapter 14

  1. It was now two days before the feast of the Passover and the unleavened bread, and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might seize him by deception, and kill him.
  2. For they said, “Not during the feast, cuz there might be a riot of the people.”
  3. While he was at Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at the table, a woman came having an alabaster jar of ointment of pure nard—hella costly. She broke the jar, and poured it over his head.
  4. But there were some who were indignant among themselves, saying, “Why has this ointment been wasted?
  5. For this might have been sold for more than three hundred denarii, and given to the broke.” They grumbled against her.
  6. But Jesus said, “Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a fire work for me.
  7. For you always have the broke with you, and whenever you want to, you can do them fire; but you will not always have me.
  8. She has done what she could. She has anointed my body beforehand for the burying.
  9. Most for sure I tell you, wherever this fire News may be preached throughout the whole world, that which this woman has done will also be spoken of for a memorial of her.”
 10. Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went away to the chief priests, that he might deliver him to them.
 11. They, when they heard it, were glad, and promised to hook it up him money. He sought how he might conveniently deliver him.
 12. On the day one of unleavened bread, when they sacrificed the Passover, his disciples asked him, “Where do you want us to slide and prepare that you may eat the Passover?”
 13. He sent two of his disciples, and said to them, “slide into the city, and there you will meet a man carrying a pitcher of water. roll with him,
 14. and wherever he enters in, tell the boss of the house, ‘The Teacher says, “Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?”’
 15. He will himself show you a large upper room furnished and ready. Get ready for us there.”
 16. His disciples went out, and came into the city, and found things as he had said to them, and they prepared the Passover.
 17. When it was evening he came with the twelve.
 18. As they sat and were eating, Jesus said, “Most for sure I tell you, one of you will betray me—he who eats with me.”
 19. They began to be sorrowful, and to ask him one by one, “Surely not I?” And another said, “Surely not I?”
 20. He answered them, “It is one of the twelve, he who dips with me in the dish.
 21. For the Son of Man goes, even as it is written about him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would be better for that man if he had not been born.”
 22. As they were eating, Jesus took bread, and when he had blessed up, he broke it, and gave to them, and said, “grab, eat. This is my body.”
 23. He took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave to them. They all drank of it.
 24. He said to them, “This is my blood of the new God's promise, which is poured out for a lot.
 25. Most for sure I tell you, I will no more drink of the fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it anew in the God's squad of God.”
 26. When they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
 27. Jesus said to them, “All of you will be made to stumble cuz of me tonight, for it is written, ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.’
 28. but like, after I am raised up, I will slide before you into Galilee.”
 29. But Peter said to him, “Although all will be offended, yet I will not.”
 30. Jesus said to him, “Most for sure I tell you, that you today, even this night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.”
 31. But he spoke all the more, “If I must die with you, I will not deny you.” They all said the same thing.
 32. They came to a place which was named Gethsemane. He said to his disciples, “Sit here, while I pray.”
 33. He took with him Peter, James, and John, and began to be greatly troubled and distressed.
 34. He said to them, “My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here, and watch.”
 35. He went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass away from him.
 36. He said, “dad, Father, all things are possible to you. Please remove this cup from me. but like, not what I desire, but what you desire.”
 37. He came and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, “Simon, are you sleeping? Couldn’t you watch one hour?
 38. Watch and pray, that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit facts is willing, but the flesh is not it.”
 39. Again he went away, and prayed, saying the same words.
 40. Again he returned, and found them sleeping, for their eyes were hella heavy, and they didn’t get it what to answer him.
 41. He came the third time, and said to them, “Sleep on now, and grab your rest. It is enough. The hour has come through. check this out, the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
 42. Arise, let us be going. check this out, he who betrays me is at hand.”
 43. Immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, came—and with him a multitude with swords and clubs, from the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders.
 44. now he who betrayed him had given them a sign, saying, “Whomever I will kiss, that is he. Seize him, and show the way him away safely.”
 45. When he had come through, immediately he came to him, and said, “teacher! teacher!” and kissed him.
 46. They laid their hands on him, and seized him.
 47. But a certain one of those who stood by drew his sword, and struck the helper of the high priest, and cut off his ear.
 48. Jesus answered them, “Have you come through out, as against a robber, with swords and clubs to seize me?
 49. I was daily with you in the God's house teaching, and you didn’t arrest me. But this is so that the Scriptures might be fulfilled.”
 50. They all left him, and fled.
 51. A certain young man followed him, having a linen cloth thrown around himself, over his naked body. The young men grabbed him,
 52. but he left the linen cloth, and fled from them naked.
 53. They led Jesus away to the high priest. All the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes came together with him.
 54. Peter had followed him from a distance, until he came into the court of the high priest. He was sitting with the officers, and warming himself in the light of the fire.
 55. now the chief priests and the whole council sought witnesses against Jesus to put him to death, and found none.
 56. For a lot gave false testimony against him, and their testimony didn’t agree with each other.
 57. Some stood up, and gave false testimony against him, saying,
 58. “We heard him say, ‘I will tear down this God's house that is made with hands, and in three days I will put together another made without hands.’”
 59. Even so, their testimony did not agree.
 60. The high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus, “Have you no answer? What is it which these testify against you?”
 61. But he stayed quiet, and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, “Are you the anointed one, the Son of the blessed up?”
 62. Jesus said, “I am. You will check it out the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of the sky.”
 63. The high priest tore his clothes, and said, “What further need have we of witnesses?
 64. You have heard the blasphemy! What do you think?” They all condemned him to be worthy of death.
 65. Some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to beat him with fists, and to tell him, “Prophesy!” The officers struck him with the palms of their hands.
 66. As Peter was in the courtyard below, one of the maids of the high priest came,
 67. and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him, and said, “You were also with the Nazarene, Jesus!”
 68. But he denied it, saying, “I neither get it, nor understand what you are saying.” He went out on the porch, and the rooster crowed.
 69. The maid checked out him, and began again to tell those who stood by, “This is one of them.”
 70. But he again denied it. After a little while again those who stood by said to Peter, “You deadass are one of them, for you are a Galilean, and your speech shows it.”
 71. But he began to curse, and to swear, “I don’t get it this man of whom you spill the tea!”
 72. The rooster crowed the second time. Peter remembered the word, how that Jesus said to him, “Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.” When he thought about that, he wept.

# Mark Chapter 15

  1. Immediately in the morning the chief priests, with the elders and scribes, and the whole council, held a consultation, and bound Jesus, and carried him away, and delivered him up to Pilate.
  2. Pilate asked him, “Are you the ruler of the Jews?” He answered, “So you say.”
  3. The chief priests accused him of a lot things.
  4. Pilate again asked him, “Have you no answer? check it out how a lot things they testify against you!”
  5. But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate marveled.
  6. now at the feast he used to release to them one prisoner, whom they asked of him.
  7. there was one called Barabbas, bound with those who had made insurrection, men who in the insurrection had committed murder.
  8. The multitude, crying aloud, began to ask him to do as he always did for them.
  9. Pilate answered them, saying, “Do you want me to release to you the ruler of the Jews?”
 10. For he perceived that for envy the chief priests had delivered him up.
 11. But the chief priests stirred up the multitude, that he should release Barabbas to them instead.
 12. Pilate again asked them, “What then should I do to him whom you call the ruler of the Jews?”
 13. They cried out again, “Crucify him!”
 14. Pilate said to them, “Why, what evil has he done?” But they cried out exceedingly, “Crucify him!”
 15. Pilate, wishing to please the multitude, released Barabbas to them, and handed over Jesus, when he had flogged him, to be crucified.
 16. The soldiers led him away within the court, which is the Praetorium; and they called together the whole cohort.
 17. They clothed him with purple, and weaving a crown of thorns, they put it on him.
 18. They began to salute him, “Hail, ruler of the Jews!”
 19. They struck his head with a reed, and spat on him, and bowing their knees, did homage to him.
 20. When they had mocked him, they took the purple off of him, and put his own garments on him. They led him out to crucify him.
 21. They compelled one passing by, coming from the country, Simon of Cyrene, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to slide with them, that he might bear his cross.
 22. They brought him to the place called Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, “The place of a skull.”
 23. They offered him wine mixed with myrrh to drink, but he didn’t grab it.
 24. Crucifying him, they parted his garments among them, casting lots on them, what each should grab.
 25. It was the third hour, and they crucified him.
 26. The superscription of his accusation was written over him, “THE ruler OF THE JEWS.”
 27. With him they crucified two robbers; one on his right hand, and one on his left.
 28. The Scripture was fulfilled, which says, “He was numbered with transgressors.”
 29. Those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads, and saying, “Ha! You who tear down the God's house, and put together it in three days,
 30. rescue yourself, and come through down from the cross!”
 31. Likewise, also the chief priests mocking among themselves with the scribes said, “He saved others. He can’t rescue himself.
 32. Let the anointed one, the ruler of Israel, now come through down from the cross, that we may check it out and believe him.” Those who were crucified with him insulted him.
 33. When the sixth hour had come through, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour.
 34. At the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, “Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?” which is, being interpreted, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”
 35. Some of those who stood by, when they heard it, said, “check this out, he is calling Elijah.”
 36. One ran, and filling a sponge full of vinegar, put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink, saying, “Let him be. Let’s check it out whether Elijah comes to grab him down.”
 37. Jesus cried out with a loud voice, and gave up the spirit.
 38. The veil of the God's house was torn in two from the top to the bottom.
 39. When the centurion, who stood by opposite him, checked out that he cried out like this and breathed his last, he said, “deadass this man was the Son of God!”
 40. there were also women watching from afar, among whom were both Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the less and of Joses, and Salome;
 41. who, when he was in Galilee, followed him, and served him; and a lot other women who came up with him to Jerusalem.
 42. When evening had now come through, cuz it was the Preparation Day, that is, the day before the Sabbath,
 43. Joseph of Arimathaea, a prominent council member who also himself was looking for the God's squad of God, came. He boldly went in to Pilate, and asked for Jesus’ body.
 44. Pilate marveled if he were already dead; and summoning the centurion, he asked him whether he had been dead long.
 45. When he found out from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph.
 46. He bought a linen cloth, and taking him down, wound him in the linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb which had been cut out of a rock. He rolled a stone against the door of the tomb.
 47. Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of Joses, checked out where he was laid.

# Mark Chapter 16

  1. When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, that they might come through and anoint him.
  2. hella early on the day one of the week, they came to the tomb when the sun had risen.
  3. They were saying among themselves, “Who will roll away the stone from the door of the tomb for us?”
  4. for it was hella huge. Looking up, they checked out that the stone was rolled back.
  5. Entering into the tomb, they checked out a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe, and they were amazed.
  6. He said to them, “Don’t be amazed. You seek Jesus, the Nazarene, who has been crucified. He has risen. He is not here. check this out, the place where they laid him!
  7. But slide, tell his disciples and Peter, ‘He goes before you into Galilee. there you will check it out him, as he said to you.’”
  8. They went out, and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had come through on them. They said nothing to anyone; for they were scared.
  9. now when he had risen early on the day one of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.
 10. She went and told those who had been with him, as they mourned and wept.
 11. When they heard that he was alive, and had been seen by her, they disbelieved.
 12. After these things he was revealed in another form to two of them, as they walked, on their way into the country.
 13. They went away and told it to the rest. They didn’t believe them, either.
 14. Afterward he was revealed to the eleven themselves as they sat at the table, and he rebuked them for their unbelief and hardness of heart, cuz they didn’t believe those who had seen him after he had risen.
 15. He said to them, “slide into all the world, and preach the fire News to the whole creation.
 16. He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who disbelieves will be condemned.
 17. These signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will spill the tea with new languages;
 18. they will grab up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it will in no way hurt them; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will recover.”
 19. So then the boss, after he had spoken to them, was received up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God.
 20. They went out, and preached everywhere, the boss working with them, and confirming the word by the signs that followed. facts.


MATTHEW
-------

# Matthew Chapter 1

  1. The book of the genealogy of Jesus anointed one, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
  2. Abraham became the father of Isaac. Isaac became the father of Jacob. Jacob became the father of Judah and his brothers.
  3. Judah became the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar. Perez became the father of Hezron. Hezron became the father of Ram.
  4. Ram became the father of Amminadab. Amminadab became the father of Nahshon. Nahshon became the father of Salmon.
  5. Salmon became the father of Boaz by Rahab. Boaz became the father of Obed by Ruth. Obed became the father of Jesse.
  6. Jesse became the father of ruler David. David became the father of Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah.
  7. Solomon became the father of Rehoboam. Rehoboam became the father of Abijah. Abijah became the father of Asa.
  8. Asa became the father of Jehoshaphat. Jehoshaphat became the father of Joram. Joram became the father of Uzziah.
  9. Uzziah became the father of Jotham. Jotham became the father of Ahaz. Ahaz became the father of Hezekiah.
 10. Hezekiah became the father of Manasseh. Manasseh became the father of Amon. Amon became the father of Josiah.
 11. Josiah became the father of Jechoniah and his brothers, at the time of the exile to Babylon.
 12. After the exile to Babylon, Jechoniah became the father of Shealtiel. Shealtiel became the father of Zerubbabel.
 13. Zerubbabel became the father of Abiud. Abiud became the father of Eliakim. Eliakim became the father of Azor.
 14. Azor became the father of Sadoc. Sadoc became the father of Achim. Achim became the father of Eliud.
 15. Eliud became the father of Eleazar. Eleazar became the father of Matthan. Matthan became the father of Jacob.
 16. Jacob became the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, from whom was born Jesus, who is called anointed one.
 17. So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations; from David to the exile to Babylon fourteen generations; and from the carrying away to Babylon to the anointed one, fourteen generations.
 18. now the birth of Jesus anointed one was like this; for after his mother, Mary, was engaged to Joseph, before they came together, she was found pregnant by the set apart Spirit.
 19. Joseph, her husband, being a doing what's right man, and not willing to create her a public example, intended to put her away secretly.
 20. But when he thought about these things, check this out, an angel of the boss appeared to him in a dream, saying, “Joseph, son of David, don’t be scared to grab to yourself Mary, your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the set apart Spirit.
 21. She shall bring forth a son. You shall call his name Jesus, for it is he who shall rescue his people from their sins.”
 22. now all this has happened, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the boss through the God's messenger, saying,
 23. “check this out, the virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son. They shall call his name Immanuel;” which is, being interpreted, “God with us.”
 24. Joseph arose from his sleep, and did as the angel of the boss commanded him, and took his wife to himself;
 25. and didn’t get it her sexually until she had brought forth her firstborn son. He named him Jesus.

# Matthew Chapter 2

  1. now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of ruler Herod, check this out, smart men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying,
  2. “Where is he who is born ruler of the Jews? For we checked out his star in the east, and have come through to giving props him.”
  3. When ruler Herod heard it, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.
  4. Gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he asked them where the anointed one would be born.
  5. They said to him, “In Bethlehem of Judea, for this is written through the God's messenger,
  6. ‘You Bethlehem, land of Judah, are in no way least among the princes of Judah: for out of you shall come through forth a governor, who shall shepherd my people, Israel.’”
  7. then Herod secretly called the smart men, and learned from them exactly what time the star appeared.
  8. He sent them to Bethlehem, and said, “slide and search diligently for the young child. When you have found him, bring me word, so that I also may come through and giving props him.”
  9. They, having heard the ruler, went their way; and check this out, the star, which they checked out in the east, went before them, until it came and stood over where the young child was.
 10. When they checked out the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly major joy.
 11. They came into the house and checked out the young child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshiped him. Opening their treasures, they offered to him gifts: gold, frankincense, and myrrh.
 12. Being warned in a dream that they shouldn’t return to Herod, they went back to their own country another way.
 13. now when they had departed, check this out, an angel of the boss appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, “Arise and grab the young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and stay there until I tell you, for Herod will seek the young child to tear down him.”
 14. He arose and took the young child and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt,
 15. and was there until the death of Herod; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the boss through the God's messenger, saying, “Out of Egypt I called my son.”
 16. then Herod, when he checked out that he was mocked by the smart men, was exceedingly mad salty, and sent out, and killed all the male children who were in Bethlehem and in all the surrounding countryside, from two years old and under, according to the exact time which he had learned from the smart men.
 17. then that which was spoken by Jeremiah the God's messenger was fulfilled, saying,
 18. “A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, weeping and major mourning, Rachel weeping for her children; she wouldn’t be comforted, cuz they are no more.”
 19. But when Herod was dead, check this out, an angel of the boss appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying,
 20. “Arise and grab the young child and his mother, and slide into the land of Israel, for those who sought the young child’s life are dead.”
 21. He arose and took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel.
 22. But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in the place of his father, Herod, he was scared to slide there. Being warned in a dream, he withdrew into the region of Galilee,
 23. and came and lived in a city called Nazareth; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the prophets: “He will be called a Nazarene.”

# Matthew Chapter 3

  1. In those days, John the Baptizer came, preaching in the wilderness of Judea, saying,
  2. “turn it around, for the God's squad of Heaven is at hand!”
  3. For this is he who was spoken of by Isaiah the God's messenger, saying, “The voice of one crying in the wilderness, create ready the way of the boss. create his paths straight.”
  4. now John himself wore clothing made of camel’s hair, with a leather belt around his waist. His food was locusts and wild honey.
  5. then people from Jerusalem, all of Judea, and all the region around the Jordan went out to him.
  6. They were baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins.
  7. But when he checked out a lot of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for his baptism, he said to them, “You offspring of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come through?
  8. so basically bring forth fruit worthy of repentance!
  9. Don’t think to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham for our father,’ for I tell you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones.
 10. “Even now the axe lies at the root of the trees. so basically, every tree that doesn’t bring forth fire fruit is cut down, and cast into the fire.
 11. I facts baptize you in water for repentance, but he who comes after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you in the set apart Spirit.
 12. His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor. He will gather his wheat into the barn, but the chaff he will burn up with unquenchable fire.”
 13. then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him.
 14. But John would have hindered him, saying, “I need to be baptized by you, and you come through to me?”
 15. But Jesus, answering, said to him, “Allow it now, for this is the fitting way for us to fulfill all righteousness.” then he allowed him.
 16. Jesus, when he was baptized, went up directly from the water: and check this out, the heavens were opened to him. He checked out the Spirit of God descending as a dove, and coming on him.
 17. check this out, a voice out of the heavens said, “This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.”

# Matthew Chapter 4

  1. then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil.
  2. When he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was hungry afterward.
  3. The tempter came and said to him, “If you are the Son of God, command that these stones become bread.”
  4. But he answered, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God.’”
  5. then the devil took him into the set apart city. He set him on the pinnacle of the God's house,
  6. and said to him, “If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, ‘He will put his angels in charge of you.’ and, ‘On their hands they will bear you up, so that you don’t dash your foot against a stone.’”
  7. Jesus said to him, “Again, it is written, ‘You shall not test the boss, your God.’”
  8. Again, the devil took him to an exceedingly high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world, and their glory.
  9. He said to him, “I will hook it up you all of these things, if you will fall down and giving props me.”
 10. then Jesus said to him, “Get behind me, Satan! For it is written, ‘You shall giving props the boss your God, and you shall help out him only.’”
 11. then the devil left him, and check this out, angels came and served him.
 12. now when Jesus heard that John was delivered up, he withdrew into Galilee.
 13. Leaving Nazareth, he came and lived in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali,
 14. that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah the God's messenger, saying,
 15. “The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, toward the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles,
 16. the people who sat in darkness checked out a major light, to those who sat in the region and shadow of death, to them light has dawned.”
 17. From that time, Jesus began to preach, and to say, “turn it around! For the God's squad of Heaven is at hand.”
 18. Walking by the sea of Galilee, he checked out two brothers: Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew, his brother, casting a net into the sea; for they were fishermen.
 19. He said to them, “come through after me, and I will create you fishers for men.”
 20. They immediately left their nets and followed him.
 21. Going on from there, he checked out two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. He called them.
 22. They immediately left the boat and their father, and followed him.
 23. Jesus went about in all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the fire News of the God's squad, and healing every disease and every sickness among the people.
 24. The report about him went out into all Syria. They brought to him all who were sick, afflicted with various diseases and torments, possessed with demons, epileptics, and paralytics; and he healed them.
 25. major multitudes from Galilee, Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea and from beyond the Jordan followed him.

# Matthew Chapter 5

  1. Seeing the multitudes, he went up onto the mountain. When he had sat down, his disciples came to him.
  2. He opened his mouth and taught them, saying,
  3. “blessed up are the broke in spirit, for theirs is the God's squad of Heaven.
  4. blessed up are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.
  5. blessed up are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth.
  6. blessed up are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled.
  7. blessed up are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy.
  8. blessed up are the pure in heart, for they shall check it out God.
  9. blessed up are the peacemakers, for they shall be called children of God.
 10. blessed up are those who have been persecuted for righteousness’ sake, for theirs is the God's squad of Heaven.
 11. “blessed up are you when people reproach you, persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you falsely, for my sake.
 12. be hyped, and be exceedingly glad, for major is your reward in heaven. For that is how they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
 13. “You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt has lost its flavor, with what will it be salted? It is then fire for nothing, but to be cast out and trodden under the feet of men.
 14. You are the light of the world. A city located on a hill can’t be hidden.
 15. Neither do you light a lamp, and put it under a measuring basket, but on a stand; and it shines to all who are in the house.
 16. Even so, let your light shine before men; that they may check it out your fire works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven.
 17. “Don’t think that I came to tear down the law or the prophets. I didn’t come through to tear down, but to fulfill.
 18. For most for sure, I tell you, until heaven and earth pass away, not even one smallest letter or one tiny pen stroke shall in any way pass away from the law, until all things are accomplished.
 19. Whoever, so basically, shall break one of these least commandments, and drop knowledge others to do so, shall be called least in the God's squad of Heaven; but whoever shall do and drop knowledge them shall be called major in the God's squad of Heaven.
 20. For I tell you that unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, there is no way you will enter into the God's squad of Heaven.
 21. “You have heard that it was said to the ancient ones, ‘You shall not murder;’ and ‘Whoever shall murder shall be in danger of the judgment.’
 22. But I tell you, that everyone who is mad salty with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment; and whoever shall say to his brother, ‘Raca!’ shall be in danger of the council; and whoever shall say, ‘You fool!’ shall be in danger of the fire of Gehenna.
 23. “If so basically you are giving to God your gift at the prayer spot, and there remember that your brother has anything against you,
 24. leave your gift there before the prayer spot, and slide your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come through and offer your gift.
 25. Agree with your adversary quickly, while you are with him in the way; lest perhaps the prosecutor deliver you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and you be cast into prison.
 26. Most for sure I tell you, you shall by no means get out of there, until you have paid the last penny.
 27. “You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall not commit adultery;’
 28. but I tell you that everyone who gazes at a woman to lust after her has committed adultery with her already in his heart.
 29. If your right eye causes you to stumble, pluck it out and throw it away from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members should perish, than for your whole body to be cast into Gehenna.
 30. If your right hand causes you to stumble, cut it off, and throw it away from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members should perish, than for your whole body to be cast into Gehenna.
 31. “It was also said, ‘Whoever shall put away his wife, let him hook it up her a writing of divorce,’
 32. but I tell you that whoever puts away his wife, except for the cause of sexual immorality, makes her an adulteress; and whoever marries her when she is put away commits adultery.
 33. “Again you have heard that it was said to them of old time, ‘You shall not create false vows, but shall perform to the boss your vows,’
 34. but I tell you, don’t swear at all: neither by heaven, for it is the throne of God;
 35. nor by the earth, for it is the footstool of his feet; nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the major ruler.
 36. Neither shall you swear by your head, for you can’t create one hair white or black.
 37. But let your ‘Yes’ be ‘Yes’ and your ‘No’ be ‘No.’ Whatever is more than these is of the evil one.
 38. “You have heard that it was said, ‘An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.’
 39. But I tell you, don’t resist him who is evil; but whoever strikes you on your right cheek, turn to him the other also.
 40. If anyone sues you to grab away your coat, let him have your cloak also.
 41. Whoever compels you to slide one mile, slide with him two.
 42. hook it up to him who asks you, and don’t turn away him who desires to borrow from you.
 43. “You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall show love your neighbor, and can't stand your enemy.’
 44. But I tell you, show love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do fire to those who can't stand you, and pray for those who mistreat you and persecute you,
 45. that you may be children of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun to rise on the evil and the fire, and sends rain on the just and the unjust.
 46. For if you show love those who show love you, what reward do you have? Don’t even the tax collectors do the same?
 47. If you only greet your friends, what more do you do than others? Don’t even the tax collectors do the same?
 48. so basically you shall be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect.

# Matthew Chapter 6

  1. “Be careful that you don’t do your charitable giving before men, to be seen by them, or else you have no reward from your Father who is in heaven.
  2. so basically when you do merciful deeds, don’t sound a trumpet before yourself, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may get glory from men. Most for sure I tell you, they have received their reward.
  3. But when you do merciful deeds, don’t let your left hand get it what your right hand does,
  4. so that your merciful deeds may be in secret, then your Father who sees in secret will reward you openly.
  5. “When you pray, you shall not be as the hypocrites, for they show love to stand and pray in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. Most for sure, I tell you, they have received their reward.
  6. But you, when you pray, enter into your inner room, and having shut your door, pray to your Father who is in secret, and your Father who sees in secret will reward you openly.
  7. In praying, don’t use vain repetitions, as the Gentiles do; for they think that they will be heard for their much speaking.
  8. so basically don’t be like them, for your Father knows what things you need, before you ask him.
  9. Pray like this: ‘Our Father in heaven, may your name be kept set apart.
 10. Let your God's squad come through. Let your will be done, as in heaven, so on earth.
 11. hook it up us today our daily bread.
 12. Forgive us our debts, as we also forgive our debtors.
 13. Bring us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the God's squad, the power, and the glory forever. facts.’
 14. “For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.
 15. But if you don’t forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
 16. “Moreover when you fast, don’t be like the hypocrites, with sad faces. For they disfigure their faces, that they may be seen by men to be fasting. Most for sure I tell you, they have received their reward.
 17. But you, when you fast, anoint your head, and wash your face;
 18. so that you are not seen by men to be fasting, but by your Father who is in secret, and your Father, who sees in secret, will reward you.
 19. “Don’t lay up treasures for yourselves on the earth, where moth and rust consume, and where thieves break through and steal;
 20. but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consume, and where thieves don’t break through and steal;
 21. for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
 22. “The lamp of the body is the eye. If so basically your eye is sound, your whole body will be full of light.
 23. But if your eye is evil, your whole body will be full of darkness. If so basically the light that is in you is darkness, how major is the darkness!
 24. “No one can help out two masters, for either he will can't stand the one and show love the other; or else he will be devoted to one and despise the other. You can’t help out both God and Mammon.
 25. so basically, I tell you, don’t be anxious for your life: what you will eat, or what you will drink; nor yet for your body, what you will wear. Isn’t life more than food, and the body more than clothing?
 26. check it out the birds of the sky, that they don’t sow, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. Your heavenly Father feeds them. Aren’t you of much more value than they?
 27. “Which of you, by being anxious, can add one moment to his lifespan?
 28. Why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They don’t toil, neither do they spin,
 29. yet I tell you that even Solomon in all his glory was not dressed like one of these.
 30. But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today exists, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, won’t he much more clothe you, you of little trusting the process?
 31. “so basically don’t be anxious, saying, ‘What will we eat?’, ‘What will we drink?’ or, ‘With what will we be clothed?’
 32. For the Gentiles seek after all these things; for your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things.
 33. But seek first God’s God's squad, and his righteousness; and all these things will be given to you as well.
 34. so basically don’t be anxious for tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Each day’s own evil is sufficient.

# Matthew Chapter 7

  1. “Don’t judge, so that you won’t be judged.
  2. For with whatever judgment you judge, you will be judged; and with whatever measure you measure, it will be measured to you.
  3. Why do you check it out the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but don’t consider the beam that is in your own eye?
  4. Or how will you tell your brother, ‘Let me remove the speck from your eye;’ and check this out, the beam is in your own eye?
  5. You hypocrite! First remove the beam out of your own eye, and then you can check it out clearly to remove the speck out of your brother’s eye.
  6. “Don’t hook it up that which is set apart to the dogs, neither throw your pearls before the pigs, lest perhaps they trample them under their feet, and turn and tear you to pieces.
  7. “Ask, and it will be given you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened for you.
  8. For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. To him who knocks it will be opened.
  9. Or who is there among you, who, if his son asks him for bread, will hook it up him a stone?
 10. Or if he asks for a fish, who will hook it up him a serpent?
 11. If you then, being evil, get it how to hook it up fire gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven hook it up fire things to those who ask him!
 12. so basically whatever you desire for men to do to you, you shall also do to them; for this is the law and the prophets.
 13. “Enter in by the narrow gate; for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and a lot are those who enter in by it.
 14. How narrow is the gate, and restricted is the way that leads to life! not much are those who find it.
 15. “Beware of false prophets, who come through to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly are ravening wolves.
 16. By their fruits you will get it them. Do you gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles?
 17. Even so, every fire tree produces fire fruit; but the corrupt tree produces evil fruit.
 18. A fire tree can’t produce evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree produce fire fruit.
 19. Every tree that doesn’t grow fire fruit is cut down, and thrown into the fire.
 20. so basically, by their fruits you will get it them.
 21. Not everyone who says to me, ‘boss, boss,’ will enter into the God's squad of Heaven; but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
 22. a lot will tell me in that day, ‘boss, boss, didn’t we prophesy in your name, in your name cast out demons, and in your name do a lot mighty works?’
 23. then I will tell them, ‘I never knew you. Depart from me, you who work iniquity.’
 24. “Everyone so basically who hears these words of mine, and does them, I will liken him to a smart man, who built his house on a rock.
 25. The rain came down, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house; and it didn’t fall, for it was founded on the rock.
 26. Everyone who hears these words of mine, and doesn’t do them will be like a dumb man, who built his house on the sand.
 27. The rain came down, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house; and it fell—and major was its fall.”
 28. It happened, when Jesus had finished saying these things, that the multitudes were astonished at his teaching,
 29. for he taught them with authority, and not like the scribes.

# Matthew Chapter 8

  1. When he came down from the mountain, major multitudes followed him.
  2. check this out, a leper came to him and worshiped him, saying, “boss, if you want to, you can create me clean.”
  3. Jesus stretched out his hand, and touched him, saying, “I want to. Be made clean.” Immediately his leprosy was cleansed.
  4. Jesus said to him, “check it out that you tell nobody, but slide, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.”
  5. When he came into Capernaum, a centurion came to him, asking him,
  6. and saying, “boss, my helper lies in the house paralyzed, grievously tormented.”
  7. Jesus said to him, “I will come through and heal him.”
  8. The centurion answered, “boss, I’m not worthy for you to come through under my roof. Just say the word, and my helper will be healed.
  9. For I am also a man under authority, having under myself soldiers. I tell this one, ‘slide,’ and he goes; and tell another, ‘come through,’ and he comes; and tell my helper, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”
 10. When Jesus heard it, he marveled, and said to those who followed, “Most for sure I tell you, I haven’t found so major a trusting the process, not even in Israel.
 11. I tell you that a lot will come through from the east and the west, and will sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the God's squad of Heaven,
 12. but the children of the God's squad will be thrown out into the outer darkness. there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.”
 13. Jesus said to the centurion, “slide your way. Let it be done for you as you have believed.” His helper was healed in that hour.
 14. When Jesus came into Peter’s house, he checked out his wife’s mother lying sick with a fever.
 15. He touched her hand, and the fever left her. She got up and served him.
 16. When evening came, they brought to him a lot possessed with demons. He cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were sick;
 17. that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah the God's messenger, saying: “He took our infirmities, and bore our diseases.”
 18. now when Jesus checked out major multitudes around him, he gave the order to depart to the other side.
 19. A scribe came, and said to him, “Teacher, I will roll with you wherever you slide.”
 20. Jesus said to him, “The foxes have holes, and the birds of the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.”
 21. Another of his disciples said to him, “boss, allow me first to slide and bury my father.”
 22. But Jesus said to him, “roll with me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead.”
 23. When he got into a boat, his disciples followed him.
 24. check this out, a violent storm came up on the sea, so much that the boat was covered with the waves, but he was asleep.
 25. They came to him, and woke him up, saying, “rescue us, boss! We are dying!”
 26. He said to them, “Why are you fearful, O you of little trusting the process?” then he got up, rebuked the wind and the sea, and there was a major calm.
 27. The men marveled, saying, “What kind of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?”
 28. When he came to the other side, into the country of the Gergesenes, two people possessed by demons met him there, coming out of the tombs, exceedingly fierce, so that nobody could pass that way.
 29. check this out, they cried out, saying, “What do we have to do with you, Jesus, Son of God? Have you come through here to torment us before the time?”
 30. now there was a herd of a lot pigs feeding far away from them.
 31. The demons begged him, saying, “If you cast us out, permit us to slide away into the herd of pigs.”
 32. He said to them, “slide!” They came out, and went into the herd of pigs: and check this out, the whole herd of pigs rushed down the cliff into the sea, and died in the water.
 33. Those who fed them fled, and went away into the city, and told everything, including what happened to those who were possessed with demons.
 34. check this out, all the city came out to meet Jesus. When they checked out him, they begged that he would depart from their borders.

# Matthew Chapter 9

  1. He entered into a boat, and crossed over, and came into his own city.
  2. check this out, they brought to him a man who was paralyzed, lying on a bed. Jesus, seeing their trusting the process, said to the paralytic, “Son, cheer up! Your sins are forgiven you.”
  3. check this out, some of the scribes said to themselves, “This man blasphemes.”
  4. Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, “Why do you think evil in your hearts?
  5. For which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven;’ or to say, ‘Get up, and walk?’
  6. But that you may get it that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins...” (then he said to the paralytic), “Get up, and grab up your mat, and slide up to your house.”
  7. He arose and departed to his house.
  8. But when the multitudes checked out it, they marveled and glorified God, who had given such authority to men.
  9. As Jesus passed by from there, he checked out a man called Matthew sitting at the tax collection office. He said to him, “roll with me.” He got up and followed him.
 10. It happened as he sat in the house, check this out, a lot tax collectors and sinners came and sat down with Jesus and his disciples.
 11. When the Pharisees checked out it, they said to his disciples, “Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?”
 12. When Jesus heard it, he said to them, “Those who are healthy have no need for a physician, but those who are sick do.
 13. But you slide and pick up what this means: ‘I desire mercy, and not giving it up,’ for I came not to call the doing what's right, but sinners to repentance.”
 14. then John’s disciples came to him, saying, “Why do we and the Pharisees fast a lot, but your disciples don’t fast?”
 15. Jesus said to them, “Can the friends of the bridegroom mourn, as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come through when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast.
 16. No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment; for the patch would tear away from the garment, and a worse hole is made.
 17. Neither do people put new wine into old wineskins, or else the skins would burst, and the wine be spilled, and the skins ruined. No, they put new wine into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved.”
 18. While he told these things to them, check this out, a ruler came and worshiped him, saying, “My daughter has just died, but come through and lay your hand on her, and she will live.”
 19. Jesus got up and followed him, as did his disciples.
 20. check this out, a woman who had an issue of blood for twelve years came behind him, and touched the fringe of his garment;
 21. for she said within herself, “If I just touch his garment, I will be made well.”
 22. But Jesus, turning around and seeing her, said, “Daughter, cheer up! Your trusting the process has made you well.” And the woman was made well from that hour.
 23. When Jesus came into the ruler’s house, and checked out the flute players, and the crowd in noisy disorder,
 24. he said to them, “create room, cuz the girl isn’t dead, but sleeping.” They were ridiculing him.
 25. But when the crowd was put out, he entered in, took her by the hand, and the girl arose.
 26. The report of this went out into all that land.
 27. As Jesus passed by from there, two blind men followed him, calling out and saying, “Have mercy on us, son of David!”
 28. When he had come through into the house, the blind men came to him. Jesus said to them, “Do you believe that I am able to do this?” They told him, “Yes, boss.”
 29. then he touched their eyes, saying, “According to your trusting the process be it done to you.”
 30. Their eyes were opened. Jesus strictly commanded them, saying, “check it out that no one knows about this.”
 31. But they went out and spread abroad his fame in all that land.
 32. As they went out, check this out, a mute man who was demon possessed was brought to him.
 33. When the demon was cast out, the mute man spoke. The multitudes marveled, saying, “Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel!”
 34. But the Pharisees said, “By the prince of the demons, he casts out demons.”
 35. Jesus went about all the cities and the villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the fire News of the God's squad, and healing every disease and every sickness among the people.
 36. But when he checked out the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them, cuz they were harassed and scattered, like sheep without a shepherd.
 37. then he said to his disciples, “The harvest facts is plentiful, but the laborers are not much.
 38. Pray so basically that the boss of the harvest will send out laborers into his harvest.”

# Matthew Chapter 10

  1. He called to himself his twelve disciples, and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every disease and every sickness.
  2. now the names of the twelve apostles are these. The first, Simon, who is called Peter; Andrew, his brother; James the son of Zebedee; John, his brother;
  3. Philip; Bartholomew; Thomas; Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus; Lebbaeus, whose surname was Thaddaeus;
  4. Simon the Canaanite; and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.
  5. Jesus sent these twelve out, and commanded them, saying, “Don’t slide among the Gentiles, and don’t enter into any city of the Samaritans.
  6. Rather, slide to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
  7. As you slide, preach, saying, ‘The God's squad of Heaven is at hand!’
  8. Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, and cast out demons. Freely you received, so freely hook it up.
  9. Don’t grab any gold, nor silver, nor brass in your money belts.
 10. grab no bag for your journey, neither two coats, nor shoes, nor staff: for the laborer is worthy of his food.
 11. Into whatever city or village you enter, find out who in it is worthy; and stay there until you slide on.
 12. As you enter into the household, greet it.
 13. If the household is worthy, let your peace come through on it, but if it isn’t worthy, let your peace return to you.
 14. Whoever doesn’t receive you, nor hear your words, as you slide out of that house or that city, shake off the dust from your feet.
 15. Most for sure I tell you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.
 16. “check this out, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. so basically be smart as serpents, and harmless as doves.
 17. But beware of men: for they will deliver you up to councils, and in their synagogues they will scourge you.
 18. Yes, and you will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony to them and to the nations.
 19. But when they deliver you up, don’t be anxious how or what you will say, for it will be given you in that hour what you will say.
 20. For it is not you who spill the tea, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you.
 21. “Brother will deliver up brother to death, and the father his child. Children will rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death.
 22. You will be hated by all men for my name’s sake, but he who endures to the end will be saved.
 23. But when they persecute you in this city, flee into the next, for most for sure I tell you, you will not have gone through the cities of Israel, until the Son of Man has come through.
 24. “A Jesus' crew is not above his teacher, nor a helper above his boss.
 25. It is enough for the Jesus' crew that he be like his teacher, and the helper like his boss. If they have called the boss of the house Beelzebul, how much more those of his household!
 26. so basically don’t be scared of them, for there is nothing covered that will not be revealed; and hidden that will not be known.
 27. What I tell you in the darkness, spill the tea in the light; and what you hear whispered in the ear, proclaim on the housetops.
 28. Don’t be scared of those who kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul. Rather, fear him who is able to tear down both soul and body in Gehenna.
 29. “Aren’t two sparrows sold for an assarion coin? Not one of them falls on the ground apart from your Father’s will,
 30. but the hella hairs of your head are all numbered.
 31. so basically don’t be scared. You are of more value than a lot sparrows.
 32. Everyone so basically who confesses me before men, him I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven.
 33. But whoever denies me before men, him I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven.
 34. “Don’t think that I came to send peace on the earth. I didn’t come through to send peace, but a sword.
 35. For I came to set a man at odds against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
 36. A man’s foes will be those of his own household.
 37. He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and he who loves son or daughter more than me isn’t worthy of me.
 38. He who doesn’t grab his cross and roll with after me, isn’t worthy of me.
 39. He who seeks his life will lose it; and he who loses his life for my sake will find it.
 40. He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
 41. He who receives a God's messenger in the name of a God's messenger will receive a God's messenger’s reward. He who receives a doing what's right man in the name of a doing what's right man will receive a doing what's right man’s reward.
 42. Whoever gives one of these little ones just a cup of cold water to drink in the name of a Jesus' crew, most for sure I tell you he will in no way lose his reward.”

# Matthew Chapter 11

  1. It happened that when Jesus had finished directing his twelve disciples, he departed from there to drop knowledge and preach in their cities.
  2. now when John heard in the prison the works of anointed one, he sent two of his disciples
  3. and said to him, “Are you he who comes, or should we look for another?”
  4. Jesus answered them, “slide and tell John the things which you hear and check it out:
  5. the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the broke have fire news preached to them.
  6. blessed up is he who finds no occasion for stumbling in me.”
  7. As these went their way, Jesus began to say to the multitudes concerning John, “What did you slide out into the wilderness to check it out? A reed shaken by the wind?
  8. But what did you slide out to check it out? A man in soft clothing? check this out, those who wear soft clothing are in ruler’s houses.
  9. But why did you slide out? To check it out a God's messenger? Yes, I tell you, and much more than a God's messenger.
 10. For this is he, of whom it is written, ‘check this out, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.’
 11. Most for sure I tell you, among those who are born of women there has not arisen anyone greater than John the Baptizer; yet he who is least in the God's squad of Heaven is greater than he.
 12. From the days of John the Baptizer until now, the God's squad of Heaven suffers violence, and the violent grab it by force.
 13. For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.
 14. If you are willing to receive it, this is Elijah, who is to come through.
 15. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
 16. “But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces, who call to their companions
 17. and say, ‘We played the flute for you, and you didn’t dance. We mourned for you, and you didn’t lament.’
 18. For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, ‘He has a demon.’
 19. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, ‘check this out, a gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’ But wisdom is justified by her children.”
 20. then he began to denounce the cities in which most of his mighty works had been done, cuz they didn’t turn it around.
 21. “Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon which were done in you, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.
 22. But I tell you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon on the day of judgment than for you.
 23. You, Capernaum, who are exalted to heaven, you will slide down to Hades. For if the mighty works had been done in Sodom which were done in you, it would have remained until this day.
 24. But I tell you that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom, on the day of judgment, than for you.”
 25. At that time, Jesus answered, “I thank you, Father, boss of heaven and earth, that you hid these things from the smart and understanding, and revealed them to infants.
 26. Yes, Father, for so it was well-pleasing in your sight.
 27. All things have been delivered to me by my Father. No one knows the Son, except the Father; neither does anyone get it the Father, except the Son, and he to whom the Son desires to reveal him.
 28. “come through to me, all you who labor and are heavily burdened, and I will hook it up you rest.
 29. grab my yoke upon you, and pick up from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart; and you will find rest for your souls.
 30. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”

# Matthew Chapter 12

  1. At that time, Jesus went on the Sabbath day through the grain fields. His disciples were hungry and began to pluck heads of grain and to eat.
  2. But the Pharisees, when they checked out it, said to him, “check this out, your disciples do what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath.”
  3. But he said to them, “Haven’t you read what David did, when he was hungry, and those who were with him;
  4. how he entered into the house of God, and ate the show bread, which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for those who were with him, but only for the priests?
  5. Or have you not read in the law, that on the Sabbath day, the priests in the God's house profane the Sabbath, and are guiltless?
  6. But I tell you that one greater than the God's house is here.
  7. But if you had known what this means, ‘I desire mercy, and not giving it up,’ you would not have condemned the guiltless.
  8. For the Son of Man is boss of the Sabbath.”
  9. He departed there, and went into their synagogue.
 10. And check this out there was a man with a withered hand. They asked him, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day?” that they might accuse him.
 11. He said to them, “What man is there among you, who has one sheep, and if this one falls into a pit on the Sabbath day, won’t he grab on to it, and lift it out?
 12. Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep! so basically it is lawful to do fire on the Sabbath day.”
 13. then he told the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He stretched it out; and it was restored whole, just like the other.
 14. But the Pharisees went out, and conspired against him, how they might tear down him.
 15. Jesus, perceiving that, withdrew from there. major multitudes followed him; and he healed them all,
 16. and commanded them that they should not create him known:
 17. that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah the God's messenger, saying,
 18. “check this out, my helper whom I have chosen; my beloved in whom my soul is well pleased: I will put my Spirit on him. He will proclaim justice to the nations.
 19. He will not strive, nor shout; neither will anyone hear his voice in the streets.
 20. He won’t break a bruised reed. He won’t quench a smoking flax, until he leads justice to victory.
 21. In his name, the nations will hope.”
 22. then one possessed by a demon, blind and mute, was brought to him and he healed him, so that the blind and mute man both spoke and checked out.
 23. All the multitudes were amazed, and said, “Can this be the son of David?”
 24. But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, “This man does not cast out demons, except by Beelzebul, the prince of the demons.”
 25. Knowing their thoughts, Jesus said to them, “Every God's squad divided against itself is brought to desolation, and every city or house divided against itself will not stand.
 26. If Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his God's squad stand?
 27. If I by Beelzebul cast out demons, by whom do your children cast them out? so basically they will be your judges.
 28. But if I by the Spirit of God cast out demons, then the God's squad of God has come through upon you.
 29. Or how can one enter into the house of the built different man, and plunder his goods, unless he first bind the built different man? then he will plunder his house.
 30. “He who is not with me is against me, and he who doesn’t gather with me, scatters.
 31. so basically I tell you, every messing up and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven men.
 32. Whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him; but whoever speaks against the set apart Spirit, it will not be forgiven him, neither in this age, nor in that which is to come through.
 33. “Either create the tree fire, and its fruit fire, or create the tree corrupt, and its fruit corrupt; for the tree is known by its fruit.
 34. You offspring of vipers, how can you, being evil, spill the tea fire things? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks.
 35. The fire man out of his fire treasure brings out fire things, and the evil man out of his evil treasure brings out evil things.
 36. I tell you that every idle word that men spill the tea, they will hook it up account of it in the day of judgment.
 37. For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.”
 38. then certain of the scribes and Pharisees answered, “Teacher, we want to check it out a sign from you.”
 39. But he answered them, “An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, but no sign will be given it but the sign of Jonah the God's messenger.
 40. For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
 41. The men of Nineveh will stand up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and check this out, someone greater than Jonah is here.
 42. The ruler of the south will rise up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and check this out, someone greater than Solomon is here.
 43. But the unclean spirit, when he is gone out of the man, passes through waterless places, seeking rest, and doesn’t find it.
 44. then he says, ‘I will return into my house from which I came out,’ and when he has come through back, he finds it empty, swept, and put in order.
 45. then he goes, and takes with himself seven other spirits more evil than he is, and they enter in and dwell there. The last state of that man becomes worse than the first. Even so will it be also to this evil generation.”
 46. While he was yet speaking to the multitudes, check this out, his mother and his brothers stood outside, seeking to spill the tea to him.
 47. One said to him, “check this out, your mother and your brothers stand outside, seeking to spill the tea to you.”
 48. But he answered him who spoke to him, “Who is my mother? Who are my brothers?”
 49. He stretched out his hand towards his disciples, and said, “check this out, my mother and my brothers!
 50. For whoever does the will of my Father who is in heaven, he is my brother, and sister, and mother.”

# Matthew Chapter 13

  1. On that day Jesus went out of the house, and sat by the seaside.
  2. major multitudes gathered to him, so that he entered into a boat, and sat, and all the multitude stood on the beach.
  3. He spoke to them a lot things in parables, saying, “check this out, a farmer went out to sow.
  4. As he sowed, some seeds fell by the roadside, and the birds came and devoured them.
  5. Others fell on rocky ground, where they didn’t have much soil, and immediately they sprang up, cuz they had no depth of earth.
  6. When the sun had risen, they were scorched. cuz they had no root, they withered away.
  7. Others fell among thorns. The thorns grew up and choked them.
  8. Others fell on fire soil, and yielded fruit: some one hundred times as much, some sixty, and some thirty.
  9. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”
 10. The disciples came, and said to him, “Why do you spill the tea to them in parables?”
 11. He answered them, “To you it is given to get it the mysteries of the God's squad of Heaven, but it is not given to them.
 12. For whoever has, to him will be given, and he will have abundance, but whoever doesn’t have, from him will be taken away even that which he has.
 13. so basically I spill the tea to them in parables, cuz seeing they don’t check it out, and hearing, they don’t hear, neither do they understand.
 14. In them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says, ‘By hearing you will hear, and will in no way understand; Seeing you will check it out, and will in no way perceive:
 15. for this people’s heart has grown callous, their ears are dull of hearing, they have closed their eyes; or else perhaps they might perceive with their eyes, hear with their ears, understand with their heart, and should turn again; and I would heal them.’
 16. “But blessed up are your eyes, for they check it out; and your ears, for they hear.
 17. For most for sure I tell you that a lot prophets and doing what's right men desired to check it out the things which you check it out, and didn’t check it out them; and to hear the things which you hear, and didn’t hear them.
 18. “Hear, then, the parable of the farmer.
 19. When anyone hears the word of the God's squad, and doesn’t understand it, the evil one comes, and snatches away that which has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown by the roadside.
 20. What was sown on the rocky places, this is he who hears the word, and immediately with joy receives it;
 21. yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while. When oppression or persecution arises cuz of the word, immediately he stumbles.
 22. What was sown among the thorns, this is he who hears the word, but the cares of this age and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful.
 23. What was sown on the fire ground, this is he who hears the word, and understands it, who most for sure bears fruit, and brings forth, some one hundred times as much, some sixty, and some thirty.”
 24. He set another parable before them, saying, “The God's squad of Heaven is like a man who sowed fire seed in his field,
 25. but while people slept, his enemy came and sowed darnel weeds also among the wheat, and went away.
 26. But when the blade sprang up and brought forth fruit, then the darnel weeds appeared also.
 27. The servants of the householder came and said to him, ‘Sir, didn’t you sow fire seed in your field? Where did this darnel come through from?’
 28. “He said to them, ‘An enemy has done this.’ “The servants asked him, ‘Do you want us to slide and gather them up?’
 29. “But he said, ‘No, lest perhaps while you gather up the darnel weeds, you root up the wheat with them.
 30. Let both grow together until the harvest, and in the harvest time I will tell the reapers, “First, gather up the darnel weeds, and bind them in bundles to burn them; but gather the wheat into my barn.”’”
 31. He set another parable before them, saying, “The God's squad of Heaven is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field;
 32. which facts is smaller than all seeds. But when it is grown, it is greater than the herbs, and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come through and lodge in its branches.”
 33. He spoke another parable to them. “The God's squad of Heaven is like yeast, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, until it was all leavened.”
 34. Jesus spoke all these things in parables to the multitudes; and without a parable, he didn’t spill the tea to them,
 35. that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the God's messenger, saying, “I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter things hidden from the foundation of the world.”
 36. then Jesus sent the multitudes away, and went into the house. His disciples came to him, saying, “Explain to us the parable of the darnel weeds of the field.”
 37. He answered them, “He who sows the fire seed is the Son of Man,
 38. the field is the world; and the fire seed, these are the children of the God's squad; and the darnel weeds are the children of the evil one.
 39. The enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are angels.
 40. As so basically the darnel weeds are gathered up and burned with fire; so will it be at the end of this age.
 41. The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will gather out of his God's squad all things that cause stumbling, and those who do iniquity,
 42. and will cast them into the furnace of fire. there will be weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
 43. then the doing what's right will shine forth like the sun in the God's squad of their Father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
 44. “Again, the God's squad of Heaven is like a treasure hidden in the field, which a man found, and hid. In his joy, he goes and sells all that he has, and buys that field.
 45. “Again, the God's squad of Heaven is like a man who is a merchant seeking fine pearls,
 46. who having found one pearl of major price, he went and sold all that he had, and bought it.
 47. “Again, the God's squad of Heaven is like a dragnet, that was cast into the sea, and gathered some fish of every kind,
 48. which, when it was filled, they drew up on the beach. They sat down, and gathered the fire into containers, but the trash they threw away.
 49. So will it be in the end of the world. The angels will come through forth, and separate the wicked from among the doing what's right,
 50. and will cast them into the furnace of fire. there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.”
 51. Jesus said to them, “Have you understood all these things?” They answered him, “Yes, boss.”
 52. He said to them, “so basically, every scribe who has been made a Jesus' crew in the God's squad of Heaven is like a man who is a householder, who brings out of his treasure new and old things.”
 53. It happened that when Jesus had finished these parables, he departed from there.
 54. Coming into his own country, he taught them in their synagogue, so that they were astonished, and said, “Where did this man get this wisdom, and these mighty works?
 55. Isn’t this the carpenter’s son? Isn’t his mother called Mary, and his brothers, James, Joses, Simon, and Judas?
 56. Aren’t all of his sisters with us? Where then did this man get all of these things?”
 57. They were offended by him. But Jesus said to them, “A God's messenger is not without honor, except in his own country, and in his own house.”
 58. He didn’t do a lot mighty works there cuz of their unbelief.

# Matthew Chapter 14

  1. At that time, Herod the tetrarch heard the report concerning Jesus,
  2. and said to his servants, “This is John the Baptizer. He is risen from the dead. That is why these powers work in him.”
  3. For Herod had laid hold of John, and bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife.
  4. For John said to him, “It is not lawful for you to have her.”
  5. When he would have put him to death, he feared the multitude, cuz they counted him as a God's messenger.
  6. But when Herod’s birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced among them and pleased Herod.
  7. Whereupon he promised with an oath to hook it up her whatever she should ask.
  8. She, being prompted by her mother, said, “hook it up me here on a platter the head of John the Baptizer.”
  9. The ruler was grieved, but for the sake of his oaths, and of those who sat at the table with him, he commanded it to be given,
 10. and he sent and beheaded John in the prison.
 11. His head was brought on a platter, and given to the young lady: and she brought it to her mother.
 12. His disciples came, and took the body, and buried it; and they went and told Jesus.
 13. now when Jesus heard this, he withdrew from there in a boat, to a deserted place apart. When the multitudes heard it, they followed him on foot from the cities.
 14. Jesus went out, and he checked out a major multitude. He had compassion on them, and healed their sick.
 15. When evening had come through, his disciples came to him, saying, “This place is deserted, and the hour is already late. Send the multitudes away, that they may slide into the villages, and buy themselves food.”
 16. But Jesus said to them, “They don’t need to slide away. You hook it up them something to eat.”
 17. They told him, “We only have here five loaves and two fish.”
 18. He said, “Bring them here to me.”
 19. He commanded the multitudes to sit down on the grass; and he took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, he blessed up, broke and gave the loaves to the disciples, and the disciples gave to the multitudes.
 20. They all ate, and were filled. They took up twelve baskets full of that which remained left over from the broken pieces.
 21. Those who ate were about five thousand men, besides women and children.
 22. Immediately Jesus made the disciples get into the boat, and to slide ahead of him to the other side, while he sent the multitudes away.
 23. After he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into the mountain by himself to pray. When evening had come through, he was there alone.
 24. But the boat was now in the middle of the sea, distressed by the waves, for the wind was contrary.
 25. In the fourth watch of the night, Jesus came to them, walking on the sea.
 26. When the disciples checked out him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, “It’s a ghost!” and they cried out for fear.
 27. But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying “Cheer up! It is I! Don’t be scared.”
 28. Peter answered him and said, “boss, if it is you, command me to come through to you on the waters.”
 29. He said, “come through!” Peter stepped down from the boat, and walked on the waters to come through to Jesus.
 30. But when he checked out that the wind was built different, he was scared, and beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, “boss, rescue me!”
 31. Immediately Jesus stretched out his hand, took hold of him, and said to him, “You of little trusting the process, why did you doubt?”
 32. When they got up into the boat, the wind ceased.
 33. Those who were in the boat came and worshiped him, saying, “You are deadass the Son of God!”
 34. When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret.
 35. When the people of that place recognized him, they sent into all that surrounding region, and brought to him all who were sick,
 36. and they begged him that they might just touch the fringe of his garment. As a lot as touched it were made whole.

# Matthew Chapter 15

  1. then Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem, saying,
  2. “Why do your disciples disobey the tradition of the elders? For they don’t wash their hands when they eat bread.”
  3. He answered them, “Why do you also disobey the commandment of God cuz of your tradition?
  4. For God commanded, ‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and, ‘He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.’
  5. But you say, ‘Whoever may tell his father or his mother, “Whatever help out you might otherwise have gotten from me is a gift devoted to God,”
  6. he shall not honor his father or mother.’ You have made the commandment of God void cuz of your tradition.
  7. You hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying,
  8. ‘These people draw near to me with their mouth, and honor me with their lips; but their heart is far from me.
  9. And in vain do they giving props me, teaching as doctrine rules made by men.’”
 10. He summoned the multitude, and said to them, “Hear, and understand.
 11. That which enters into the mouth doesn’t defile the man; but that which proceeds out of the mouth, this defiles the man.”
 12. then the disciples came, and said to him, “Do you get it that the Pharisees were offended, when they heard this saying?”
 13. But he answered, “Every plant which my heavenly Father didn’t plant will be uprooted.
 14. Leave them alone. They are blind guides of the blind. If the blind guide the blind, both will fall into a pit.”
 15. Peter answered him, “Explain the parable to us.”
 16. So Jesus said, “Do you also still not understand?
 17. Don’t you understand that whatever goes into the mouth passes into the belly, and then out of the body?
 18. But the things which proceed out of the mouth come through out of the heart, and they defile the man.
 19. For out of the heart come through forth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, sexual sins, thefts, false testimony, and blasphemies.
 20. These are the things which defile the man; but to eat with unwashed hands doesn’t defile the man.”
 21. Jesus went out from there, and withdrew into the region of Tyre and Sidon.
 22. check this out, a Canaanite woman came out from those borders, and cried, saying, “Have mercy on me, boss, you son of David! My daughter is severely demonized!”
 23. But he answered her not a word. His disciples came and begged him, saying, “Send her away; for she cries after us.”
 24. But he answered, “I wasn’t sent to anyone but the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”
 25. But she came and worshiped him, saying, “boss, help out me.”
 26. But he answered, “It is not appropriate to grab the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.”
 27. But she said, “Yes, boss, but even the dogs eat the crumbs which fall from their masters’ table.”
 28. then Jesus answered her, “Woman, major is your trusting the process! Be it done to you even as you desire.” And her daughter was healed from that hour.
 29. Jesus departed there, and came near to the sea of Galilee; and he went up into the mountain, and sat there.
 30. major multitudes came to him, having with them the lame, blind, mute, maimed, and a lot others, and they put them down at his feet. He healed them,
 31. so that the multitude wondered when they checked out the mute speaking, injured whole, lame walking, and blind seeing—and they glorified the God of Israel.
 32. Jesus summoned his disciples and said, “I have compassion on the multitude, cuz they continue with me now three days and have nothing to eat. I don’t want to send them away fasting, or they might faint on the way.”
 33. The disciples said to him, “Where should we get so a lot loaves in a deserted place as to satisfy so major a multitude?”
 34. Jesus said to them, “How a lot loaves do you have?” They said, “Seven, and a not much tiny fish.”
 35. He commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground;
 36. and he took the seven loaves and the fish. He gave thanks and broke them, and gave to the disciples, and the disciples to the multitudes.
 37. They all ate, and were filled. They took up seven baskets full of the broken pieces that were left over.
 38. Those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children.
 39. then he sent away the multitudes, got into the boat, and came into the borders of Magdala.

# Matthew Chapter 16

  1. The Pharisees and Sadducees came, and testing him, asked him to show them a sign from heaven.
  2. But he answered them, “When it is evening, you say, ‘It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.’
  3. In the morning, ‘It will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and threatening.’ Hypocrites! You get it how to discern the appearance of the sky, but you can’t discern the signs of the times!
  4. An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and there will be no sign given to it, except the sign of the God's messenger Jonah.” He left them, and departed.
  5. The disciples came to the other side and had forgotten to grab bread.
  6. Jesus said to them, “grab heed and beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
  7. They reasoned among themselves, saying, “We brought no bread.”
  8. Jesus, perceiving it, said, “Why do you reason among yourselves, you of little trusting the process, ‘cuz you have brought no bread?’
  9. Don’t you yet perceive, neither remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how a lot baskets you took up?
 10. Nor the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how a lot baskets you took up?
 11. How is it that you don’t perceive that I didn’t spill the tea to you concerning bread? But beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
 12. then they understood that he didn’t tell them to beware of the yeast of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
 13. now when Jesus came into the parts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, “Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am?”
 14. They said, “Some say John the Baptizer, some, Elijah, and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.”
 15. He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?”
 16. Simon Peter answered, “You are the anointed one, the Son of the living God.”
 17. Jesus answered him, “blessed up are you, Simon Bar Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven.
 18. I also tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will put together my assembly, and the gates of Hades will not prevail against it.
 19. I will hook it up to you the keys of the God's squad of Heaven, and whatever you bind on earth will have been bound in heaven; and whatever you release on earth will have been released in heaven.”
 20. then he commanded the disciples that they should tell no one that he was Jesus the anointed one.
 21. From that time, Jesus began to show his disciples that he must slide to Jerusalem and suffer a lot things from the elders, chief priests, and scribes, and be killed, and the day three be raised up.
 22. Peter took him aside, and began to rebuke him, saying, “Far be it from you, boss! This will never be done to you.”
 23. But he turned, and said to Peter, “Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to me, for you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of men.”
 24. then Jesus said to his disciples, “If anyone desires to come through after me, let him deny himself, and grab up his cross, and roll with me.
 25. For whoever desires to rescue his life will lose it, and whoever will lose his life for my sake will find it.
 26. For what will it profit a man, if he gains the whole world, and forfeits his life? Or what will a man hook it up in exchange for his life?
 27. For the Son of Man will come through in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will render to everyone according to his deeds.
 28. Most for sure I tell you, there are some standing here who will in no way taste of death, until they check it out the Son of Man coming in his God's squad.”

# Matthew Chapter 17

  1. After six days, Jesus took with him Peter, James, and John his brother, and brought them up into a high mountain by themselves.
  2. He was transfigured before them. His face shone like the sun, and his garments became as white as the light.
  3. check this out, Moses and Elijah appeared to them talking with him.
  4. Peter answered, and said to Jesus, “boss, it is fire for us to be here. If you want, let’s create three tents here: one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”
  5. While he was still speaking, check this out, a bright cloud overshadowed them. check this out, a voice came out of the cloud, saying, “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. listen up to him.”
  6. When the disciples heard it, they fell on their faces, and were hella scared.
  7. Jesus came and touched them and said, “Get up, and don’t be scared.”
  8. Lifting up their eyes, they checked out no one, except Jesus alone.
  9. As they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, “Don’t tell anyone what you checked out, until the Son of Man has risen from the dead.”
 10. His disciples asked him, saying, “then why do the scribes say that Elijah must come through first?”
 11. Jesus answered them, “Elijah facts comes first, and will restore all things,
 12. but I tell you that Elijah has come through already, and they didn’t recognize him, but did to him whatever they wanted to. Even so the Son of Man will also suffer by them.”
 13. then the disciples understood that he spoke to them of John the Baptizer.
 14. When they came to the multitude, a man came to him, kneeling down to him, saying,
 15. “boss, have mercy on my son, for he is epileptic, and suffers grievously; for he a lot falls into the fire, and a lot into the water.
 16. So I brought him to your disciples, and they could not cure him.”
 17. Jesus answered, “Faithless and perverse generation! How long will I be with you? How long will I bear with you? Bring him here to me.”
 18. Jesus rebuked him, the demon went out of him, and the boy was cured from that hour.
 19. then the disciples came to Jesus privately, and said, “Why weren’t we able to cast it out?”
 20. He said to them, “cuz of your unbelief. For most for sure I tell you, if you have trusting the process as a grain of mustard seed, you will tell this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move; and nothing will be impossible for you.
 21. But this kind doesn’t slide out except by talking to God and fasting.”
 22. While they were staying in Galilee, Jesus said to them, “The Son of Man is about to be delivered up into the hands of men,
 23. and they will kill him, and the day three he will be raised up.” They were exceedingly sorry.
 24. When they had come through to Capernaum, those who collected the didrachma coins came to Peter, and said, “Doesn’t your teacher pay the didrachma?”
 25. He said, “Yes.” When he came into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, “What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth receive toll or tribute? From their children, or from strangers?”
 26. Peter said to him, “From strangers.” Jesus said to him, “so basically the children are exempt.
 27. But, lest we cause them to stumble, slide to the sea, cast a hook, and grab up the first fish that comes up. When you have opened its mouth, you will find a stater coin. grab that, and hook it up it to them for me and you.”

# Matthew Chapter 18

  1. In that hour the disciples came to Jesus, saying, “Who then is greatest in the God's squad of Heaven?”
  2. Jesus called a little child to himself, and set him in their midst,
  3. and said, “Most for sure I tell you, unless you turn, and become as little children, you will in no way enter into the God's squad of Heaven.
  4. Whoever so basically humbles himself as this little child, the same is the greatest in the God's squad of Heaven.
  5. Whoever receives one such little child in my name receives me,
  6. but whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better for him that a huge millstone should be hung around his neck, and that he should be sunk in the depths of the sea.
  7. “Woe to the world cuz of occasions of stumbling! For it must be that the occasions come through, but woe to that person through whom the occasion comes!
  8. If your hand or your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off, and cast it from you. It is better for you to enter into life maimed or crippled, rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into the eternal fire.
  9. If your eye causes you to stumble, pluck it out, and cast it from you. It is better for you to enter into life with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into the Gehenna of fire.
 10. check it out that you don’t despise one of these little ones, for I tell you that in heaven their angels always check it out the face of my Father who is in heaven.
 11. For the Son of Man came to rescue that which was lost.
 12. “What do you think? If a man has one hundred sheep, and one of them goes astray, doesn’t he leave the ninety-nine, slide to the mountains, and seek that which has gone astray?
 13. If he finds it, most for sure I tell you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine which have not gone astray.
 14. Even so it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
 15. “If your brother sins against you, slide, show him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained back your brother.
 16. But if he doesn’t listen up, grab one or two more with you, that at the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.
 17. If he refuses to listen up to them, tell it to the assembly. If he refuses to hear the assembly also, let him be to you as a Gentile or a tax collector.
 18. Most for sure I tell you, whatever things you bind on earth will have been bound in heaven, and whatever things you release on earth will have been released in heaven.
 19. Again, assuredly I tell you, that if two of you will agree on earth concerning anything that they will ask, it will be done for them by my Father who is in heaven.
 20. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there I am in their midst.”
 21. then Peter came and said to him, “boss, how a lot shall my brother messing up against me, and I forgive him? Until seven times?”
 22. Jesus said to him, “I don’t tell you until seven times, but, until seventy times seven.
 23. so basically the God's squad of Heaven is like a certain ruler, who wanted to reconcile accounts with his servants.
 24. When he had begun to reconcile, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents.
 25. But cuz he couldn’t pay, his boss commanded him to be sold, with his wife, his children, and all that he had, and payment to be made.
 26. The helper so basically fell down and kneeled before him, saying, ‘boss, have patience with me, and I will repay you all!’
 27. The boss of that helper, being moved with compassion, released him, and forgave him the debt.
 28. “But that helper went out, and found one of his fellow servants, who owed him one hundred denarii, and he grabbed him, and took him by the throat, saying, ‘Pay me what you owe!’
 29. “So his fellow helper fell down at his feet and begged him, saying, ‘Have patience with me, and I will repay you!’
 30. He would not, but went and cast him into prison, until he should pay back that which was due.
 31. So when his fellow servants checked out what was done, they were exceedingly sorry, and came and told to their boss all that was done.
 32. then his boss called him in, and said to him, ‘You wicked helper! I forgave you all that debt, cuz you begged me.
 33. Shouldn’t you also have had mercy on your fellow helper, even as I had mercy on you?’
 34. His boss was mad salty, and delivered him to the tormentors, until he should pay all that was due to him.
 35. So my heavenly Father will also do to you, if you don’t each forgive your brother from your hearts for his misdeeds.”

# Matthew Chapter 19

  1. It happened when Jesus had finished these words, he departed from Galilee, and came into the borders of Judea beyond the Jordan.
  2. major multitudes followed him, and he healed them there.
  3. Pharisees came to him, testing him, and saying, “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason?”
  4. He answered, “Haven’t you read that he who made them from the beginning made them male and female,
  5. and said, ‘For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall join to his wife; and the two shall become one flesh?’
  6. So that they are no more two, but one flesh. What so basically God has joined together, don’t let man tear apart.”
  7. They asked him, “Why then did Moses command us to hook it up her a bill of divorce, and divorce her?”
  8. He said to them, “Moses, cuz of the hardness of your hearts, allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it has not been so.
  9. I tell you that whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery; and he who marries her when she is divorced commits adultery.”
 10. His disciples said to him, “If this is the case of the man with his wife, it is not expedient to marry.”
 11. But he said to them, “Not all men can receive this saying, but those to whom it is given.
 12. For there are eunuchs who were born that way from their mother’s womb, and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men; and there are eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs for the God's squad of Heaven’s sake. He who is able to receive it, let him receive it.”
 13. then little children were brought to him, that he should lay his hands on them and pray; and the disciples rebuked them.
 14. But Jesus said, “Allow the little children, and don’t forbid them to come through to me; for the God's squad of Heaven belongs to ones like these.”
 15. He laid his hands on them, and departed from there.
 16. check this out, one came to him and said, “fire teacher, what fire thing shall I do, that I may have living forever?”
 17. He said to him, “Why do you call me fire? No one is fire but one, that is, God. But if you want to enter into life, keep the commandments.”
 18. He said to him, “Which ones?” Jesus said, “‘You shall not murder.’ ‘You shall not commit adultery.’ ‘You shall not steal.’ ‘You shall not offer false testimony.’
 19. ‘Honor your father and mother.’ And, ‘You shall show love your neighbor as yourself.’”
 20. The young man said to him, “All these things I have observed from my youth. What do I still lack?”
 21. Jesus said to him, “If you want to be perfect, slide, sell what you have, and hook it up to the broke, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come through, roll with me.”
 22. But when the young man heard the saying, he went away sad, for he was one who had major possessions.
 23. Jesus said to his disciples, “Most for sure I say to you, a stacked man will enter into the God's squad of Heaven with difficulty.
 24. Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to slide through a needle’s eye, than for a stacked man to enter into the God's squad of God.”
 25. When the disciples heard it, they were exceedingly astonished, saying, “Who then can be saved?”
 26. Looking at them, Jesus said, “With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.”
 27. then Peter answered, “check this out, we have left everything, and followed you. What then will we have?”
 28. Jesus said to them, “Most for sure I tell you that you who have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of Man will sit on the throne of his glory, you also will sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
 29. Everyone who has left houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name’s sake, will receive one hundred times, and will inherit living forever.
 30. But a lot will be last who are first; and first who are last.

# Matthew Chapter 20

  1. “For the God's squad of Heaven is like a man who was the boss of a household, who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard.
  2. When he had agreed with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard.
  3. He went out about the third hour, and checked out others standing idle in the marketplace.
  4. To them he said, ‘You also slide into the vineyard, and whatever is right I will hook it up you.’ So they went their way.
  5. Again he went out about the sixth and the ninth hour, and did likewise.
  6. About the eleventh hour he went out, and found others standing idle. He said to them, ‘Why do you stand here all day idle?’
  7. “They said to him, ‘cuz no one has hired us.’ “He said to them, ‘You also slide into the vineyard, and you will receive whatever is right.’
  8. When evening had come through, the boss of the vineyard said to his manager, ‘Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning from the last to the first.’
  9. “When those who were hired at about the eleventh hour came, they each received a denarius.
 10. When the first came, they supposed that they would receive more; and they likewise each received a denarius.
 11. When they received it, they murmured against the boss of the household,
 12. saying, ‘These last have spent one hour, and you have made them equal to us, who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching heat!’
 13. “But he answered one of them, ‘Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Didn’t you agree with me for a denarius?
 14. grab that which is yours, and slide your way. It is my desire to hook it up to this last just as much as to you.
 15. Isn’t it lawful for me to do what I want to with what I own? Or is your eye evil, cuz I am fire?’
 16. So the last will be first, and the first last. For a lot are called, but not much are chosen.”
 17. As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside, and on the way he said to them,
 18. “check this out, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death,
 19. and will hand him over to the Gentiles to mock, to scourge, and to crucify; and the day three he will be raised up.”
 20. then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to him with her sons, kneeling and asking a certain thing of him.
 21. He said to her, “What do you want?” She said to him, “Command that these, my two sons, may sit, one on your right hand, and one on your left hand, in your God's squad.”
 22. But Jesus answered, “You don’t get it what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?” They said to him, “We are able.”
 23. He said to them, “You will facts drink my cup, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with, but to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to hook it up; but it is for whom it has been prepared by my Father.”
 24. When the ten heard it, they were indignant with the two brothers.
 25. But Jesus summoned them, and said, “You get it that the rulers of the nations boss it over them, and their major ones exercise authority over them.
 26. It shall not be so among you, but whoever desires to become major among you shall be your helper.
 27. Whoever desires to be first among you shall be your bondservant,
 28. even as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to help out, and to hook it up his life as a ransom for a lot.”
 29. As they went out from Jericho, a major multitude followed him.
 30. check this out, two blind men sitting by the road, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out, “boss, have mercy on us, you son of David!”
 31. The multitude rebuked them, telling them that they should be quiet, but they cried out even more, “boss, have mercy on us, you son of David!”
 32. Jesus stood still, and called them, and asked, “What do you want me to do for you?”
 33. They told him, “boss, that our eyes may be opened.”
 34. Jesus, being moved with compassion, touched their eyes; and immediately their eyes received their sight, and they followed him.

# Matthew Chapter 21

  1. When they drew near to Jerusalem, and came to Bethsphage, to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples,
  2. saying to them, “slide into the village that is opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie them, and bring them to me.
  3. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, ‘The boss needs them,’ and immediately he will send them.”
  4. All this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the God's messenger, saying,
  5. “Tell the daughter of Zion, check this out, your ruler comes to you, humble, and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.”
  6. The disciples went, and did just as Jesus commanded them,
  7. and brought the donkey and the colt, and laid their clothes on them; and he sat on them.
  8. A hella major multitude spread their clothes on the road. Others cut branches from the trees, and spread them on the road.
  9. The multitudes who went before him, and who followed kept shouting, “save us to the son of David! blessed up is he who comes in the name of the boss! save us in the highest!”
 10. When he had come through into Jerusalem, all the city was stirred up, saying, “Who is this?”
 11. The multitudes said, “This is the God's messenger, Jesus, from Nazareth of Galilee.”
 12. Jesus entered into the God's house of God, and drove out all of those who sold and bought in the God's house, and overthrew the money changers’ tables and the seats of those who sold the doves.
 13. He said to them, “It is written, ‘My house shall be called a house of talking to God,’ but you have made it a den of robbers!”
 14. The blind and the lame came to him in the God's house, and he healed them.
 15. But when the chief priests and the scribes checked out the wonderful things that he did, and the children who were crying in the God's house and saying, “save us to the son of David!” they were indignant,
 16. and said to him, “Do you hear what these are saying?” Jesus said to them, “Yes. Did you never read, ‘Out of the mouth of babes and nursing babies you have perfected praise?’”
 17. He left them, and went out of the city to Bethany, and lodged there.
 18. now in the morning, as he returned to the city, he was hungry.
 19. Seeing a fig tree by the road, he came to it, and found nothing on it but leaves. He said to it, “Let there be no fruit from you forever!” Immediately the fig tree withered away.
 20. When the disciples checked out it, they marveled, saying, “How did the fig tree immediately wither away?”
 21. Jesus answered them, “Most for sure I tell you, if you have trusting the process, and don’t doubt, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree, but even if you told this mountain, ‘Be taken up and cast into the sea,’ it would be done.
 22. All things, whatever you ask in talking to God, believing, you will receive.”
 23. When he had come through into the God's house, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to him as he was teaching, and said, “By what authority do you do these things? Who gave you this authority?”
 24. Jesus answered them, “I also will ask you one question, which if you tell me, I likewise will tell you by what authority I do these things.
 25. The baptism of John, where was it from? From heaven or from men?” They reasoned with themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will ask us, ‘Why then did you not believe him?’
 26. But if we say, ‘From men,’ we fear the multitude, for all hold John as a God's messenger.”
 27. They answered Jesus, and said, “We don’t get it.” He also said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.
 28. But what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first, and said, ‘Son, slide work today in my vineyard.’
 29. He answered, ‘I will not,’ but afterward he changed his mind, and went.
 30. He came to the second, and said the same thing. He answered, ‘I slide, sir,’ but he didn’t slide.
 31. Which of the two did the will of his father?” They said to him, “The first.” Jesus said to them, “Most for sure I tell you that the tax collectors and the prostitutes are entering into the God's squad of God before you.
 32. For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you didn’t believe him, but the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him. When you checked out it, you didn’t even turn it around afterward, that you might believe him.
 33. “Hear another parable. there was a man who was a boss of a household, who planted a vineyard, set a hedge about it, dug a winepress in it, built a tower, leased it out to farmers, and went into another country.
 34. When the season for the fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the farmers, to receive his fruit.
 35. The farmers took his servants, beat one, killed another, and stoned another.
 36. Again, he sent other servants more than the first: and they treated them the same way.
 37. But afterward he sent to them his son, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’
 38. But the farmers, when they checked out the son, said among themselves, ‘This is the heir. come through, let’s kill him, and seize his inheritance.’
 39. So they took him, and threw him out of the vineyard, and killed him.
 40. When so basically the boss of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those farmers?”
 41. They told him, “He will miserably tear down those miserable men, and will lease out the vineyard to other farmers, who will hook it up him the fruit in its season.”
 42. Jesus said to them, “Did you never read in the Scriptures, ‘The stone which the builders rejected, the same was made the head of the corner. This was from the boss. It is marvelous in our eyes?’
 43. “so basically I tell you, the God's squad of God will be taken away from you, and will be given to a nation bringing forth its fruit.
 44. He who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, but on whomever it will fall, it will scatter him as dust.”
 45. When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they perceived that he spoke about them.
 46. When they sought to seize him, they feared the multitudes, cuz they considered him to be a God's messenger.

# Matthew Chapter 22

  1. Jesus answered and spoke again in parables to them, saying,
  2. “The God's squad of Heaven is like a certain ruler, who made a marriage feast for his son,
  3. and sent out his servants to call those who were invited to the marriage feast, but they would not come through.
  4. Again he sent out other servants, saying, ‘Tell those who are invited, “check this out, I have prepared my dinner. My cattle and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready. come through to the marriage feast!”’
  5. But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his own farm, another to his merchandise,
  6. and the rest grabbed his servants, and treated them shamefully, and killed them.
  7. When the ruler heard that, he was mad salty, and sent his armies, destroyed those murderers, and burned their city.
  8. “then he said to his servants, ‘The wedding is ready, but those who were invited weren’t worthy.
  9. slide so basically to the intersections of the highways, and as a lot as you may find, invite to the marriage feast.’
 10. Those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together as a lot as they found, both trash and fire. The wedding was filled with guests.
 11. But when the ruler came in to check it out the guests, he checked out there a man who didn’t have on wedding clothing,
 12. and he said to him, ‘Friend, how did you come through in here not wearing wedding clothing?’ He was speechless.
 13. then the ruler said to the servants, ‘Bind him hand and foot, grab him away, and throw him into the outer darkness; there is where the weeping and grinding of teeth will be.’
 14. For a lot are called, but not much chosen.”
 15. then the Pharisees went and took counsel how they might entrap him in his talk.
 16. They sent their disciples to him, along with the Herodians, saying, “Teacher, we get it that you are honest, and drop knowledge the way of God in truth, no matter whom you drop knowledge, for you aren’t partial to anyone.
 17. Tell us so basically, what do you think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?”
 18. But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, “Why do you test me, you hypocrites?
 19. Show me the tax money.” They brought to him a denarius.
 20. He asked them, “Whose is this image and inscription?”
 21. They said to him, “Caesar’s.” then he said to them, “hook it up so basically to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.”
 22. When they heard it, they marveled, and left him, and went away.
 23. On that day Sadducees (those who say that there is no resurrection) came to him. They asked him,
 24. saying, “Teacher, Moses said, ‘If a man dies, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up seed for his brother.’
 25. now there were with us seven brothers. The first married and died, and having no seed left his wife to his brother.
 26. In the same way, the second also, and the third, to the seventh.
 27. After them all, the woman died.
 28. In the resurrection so basically, whose wife will she be of the seven? For they all had her.”
 29. But Jesus answered them, “You are mistaken, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God.
 30. For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are like God’s angels in heaven.
 31. But concerning the resurrection of the dead, haven’t you read that which was spoken to you by God, saying,
 32. ‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?’ God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.”
 33. When the multitudes heard it, they were astonished at his teaching.
 34. But the Pharisees, when they heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, gathered themselves together.
 35. One of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, testing him.
 36. “Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law?”
 37. Jesus said to him, “‘You shall show love the boss your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.’
 38. This is the first and major commandment.
 39. A second likewise is this, ‘You shall show love your neighbor as yourself.’
 40. The whole law and the prophets depend on these two commandments.”
 41. now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question,
 42. saying, “What do you think of the anointed one? Whose son is he?” They said to him, “Of David.”
 43. He said to them, “How then does David in the Spirit call him boss, saying,
 44. ‘The boss said to my boss, sit on my right hand, until I create your enemies a footstool for your feet?’
 45. “If then David calls him boss, how is he his son?”
 46. No one was able to answer him a word, neither did any man dare ask him any more questions from that day forth.

# Matthew Chapter 23

  1. then Jesus spoke to the multitudes and to his disciples,
  2. saying, “The scribes and the Pharisees sat on Moses’ seat.
  3. All things so basically whatever they tell you to observe, observe and do, but don’t do their works; for they say, and don’t do.
  4. For they bind heavy burdens that are grievous to be borne, and lay them on men’s shoulders; but they themselves will not lift a finger to help out them.
  5. But all their works they do to be seen by men. They create their phylacteries broad, enlarge the fringes of their garments,
  6. and show love the place of honor at feasts, the best seats in the synagogues,
  7. the salutations in the marketplaces, and to be called ‘teacher, teacher’ by men.
  8. But don’t you be called ‘teacher,’ for one is your teacher, the anointed one, and all of you are brothers.
  9. Call no man on the earth your father, for one is your Father, he who is in heaven.
 10. Neither be called masters, for one is your boss, the anointed one.
 11. But he who is greatest among you will be your helper.
 12. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
 13. “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you devour widows’ houses, and as a pretense you create long prayers. so basically you will receive greater condemnation.
 14. “But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! cuz you shut up the God's squad of Heaven against men; for you don’t enter in yourselves, neither do you allow those who are entering in to enter.
 15. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel around by sea and land to create one proselyte; and when he becomes one, you create him twice as much of a son of Gehenna as yourselves.
 16. “Woe to you, you blind guides, who say, ‘Whoever swears by the God's house, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gold of the God's house, he is obligated.’
 17. You blind fools! For which is greater, the gold, or the God's house that sanctifies the gold?
 18. ‘Whoever swears by the prayer spot, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gift that is on it, he is obligated?’
 19. You blind fools! For which is greater, the gift, or the prayer spot that sanctifies the gift?
 20. He so basically who swears by the prayer spot, swears by it, and by everything on it.
 21. He who swears by the God's house, swears by it, and by him who was living in it.
 22. He who swears by heaven, swears by the throne of God, and by him who sits on it.
 23. “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you tithe mint, dill, and cumin, and have left undone the weightier matters of the law: justice, mercy, and trusting the process. But you ought to have done these, and not to have left the other undone.
 24. You blind guides, who strain out a gnat, and swallow a camel!
 25. “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and unrighteousness.
 26. You blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup and of the platter, that its outside may become clean also.
 27. “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitened tombs, which outwardly appear snatched, but inwardly are full of dead men’s bones, and of all uncleanness.
 28. Even so you also outwardly appear doing what's right to men, but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.
 29. “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you put together the tombs of the prophets, and decorate the tombs of the doing what's right,
 30. and say, ‘If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we wouldn’t have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.’
 31. so basically you testify to yourselves that you are children of those who killed the prophets.
 32. Fill up, then, the measure of your fathers.
 33. You serpents, you offspring of vipers, how will you escape the judgment of Gehenna?
 34. so basically, check this out, I send to you prophets, smart men, and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify; and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues, and persecute from city to city;
 35. that on you may come through all the doing what's right blood shed on the earth, from the blood of doing what's right Abel to the blood of Zachariah son of Barachiah, whom you killed between the sanctuary and the prayer spot.
 36. Most for sure I tell you, all these things will come through upon this generation.
 37. “Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets, and stones those who are sent to her! How a lot I would have gathered your children together, even as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you would not!
 38. check this out, your house is left to you desolate.
 39. For I tell you, you will not check it out me from now on, until you say, ‘blessed up is he who comes in the name of the boss!’”

# Matthew Chapter 24

  1. Jesus went out from the God's house, and was going on his way. His disciples came to him to show him the buildings of the God's house.
  2. But he answered them, “You check it out all of these things, don’t you? Most for sure I tell you, there will not be left here one stone on another, that will not be thrown down.”
  3. As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, “Tell us, when will these things be? What is the sign of your coming, and of the end of the age?”
  4. Jesus answered them, “Be careful that no one leads you astray.
  5. For a lot will come through in my name, saying, ‘I am the anointed one,’ and will show the way a lot astray.
  6. You will hear of wars and rumors of wars. check it out that you aren’t troubled, for all this must happen, but the end is not yet.
  7. For nation will rise against nation, and God's squad against God's squad; and there will be famines, plagues, and earthquakes in various places.
  8. But all these things are the beginning of birth pains.
  9. then they will deliver you up to oppression, and will kill you. You will be hated by all of the nations for my name’s sake.
 10. then a lot will stumble, and will deliver up one another, and will can't stand one another.
 11. a lot false prophets will arise, and will show the way a lot astray.
 12. cuz iniquity will be multiplied, the show love of a lot will grow cold.
 13. But he who endures to the end, the same will be saved.
 14. This fire News of the God's squad will be preached in the whole world for a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come through.
 15. “When, so basically, you check it out the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the God's messenger, standing in the set apart place (let the reader understand),
 16. then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
 17. Let him who is on the housetop not slide down to grab out things that are in his house.
 18. Let him who is in the field not return back to get his clothes.
 19. But woe to those who are with child and to nursing mothers in those days!
 20. Pray that your flight will not be in the winter, nor on a Sabbath,
 21. for then there will be major oppression, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now, no, nor ever will be.
 22. Unless those days had been shortened, no flesh would have been saved. But for the sake of the chosen ones, those days will be shortened.
 23. “then if any man tells you, ‘check this out, here is the anointed one,’ or, ‘there,’ don’t believe it.
 24. For there will arise false christs, and false prophets, and they will show major signs and wonders, so as to show the way astray, if possible, even the chosen ones.
 25. “check this out, I have told you beforehand.
 26. If so basically they tell you, ‘check this out, he is in the wilderness,’ don’t slide out; ‘check this out, he is in the inner rooms,’ don’t believe it.
 27. For as the lightning flashes from the east, and is seen even to the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
 28. For wherever the carcass is, there is where the vultures gather together.
 29. But immediately after the oppression of those days, the sun will be darkened, the moon will not hook it up its light, the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken;
 30. and then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will check it out the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with power and major glory.
 31. He will send out his angels with a major sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together his chosen ones from the four winds, from one end of the sky to the other.
 32. “now from the fig tree pick up this parable. When its branch has now become tender, and puts forth its leaves, you get it that the summer is near.
 33. Even so you also, when you check it out all these things, get it that it is near, even at the doors.
 34. Most for sure I tell you, this generation will not pass away, until all these things are accomplished.
 35. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
 36. But no one knows of that day and hour, not even the angels of heaven, but my Father only.
 37. “As the days of Noah were, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
 38. For as in those days which were before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ship,
 39. and they didn’t get it until the flood came, and took them all away, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
 40. then two men will be in the field: one will be taken and one will be left;
 41. two women grinding at the mill, one will be taken and one will be left.
 42. Watch so basically, for you don’t get it in what hour your boss comes.
 43. But get it this, that if the boss of the house had known in what watch of the night the thief was coming, he would have watched, and would not have allowed his house to be broken into.
 44. so basically also be ready, for in an hour that you don’t expect, the Son of Man will come through.
 45. “Who then is the faithful and smart helper, whom his boss has set over his household, to hook it up them their food in due season?
 46. blessed up is that helper whom his boss finds doing so when he comes.
 47. Most for sure I tell you that he will set him over all that he has.
 48. But if that evil helper should say in his heart, ‘My boss is delaying his coming,’
 49. and begins to beat his fellow servants, and eat and drink with the drunkards,
 50. the boss of that helper will come through in a day when he doesn’t expect it, and in an hour when he doesn’t get it it,
 51. and will cut him in pieces, and appoint his portion with the hypocrites. there is where the weeping and grinding of teeth will be.

# Matthew Chapter 25

  1. “then the God's squad of Heaven will be like ten virgins, who took their lamps, and went out to meet the bridegroom.
  2. Five of them were dumb, and five were smart.
  3. Those who were dumb, when they took their lamps, took no oil with them,
  4. but the smart took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
  5. now while the bridegroom delayed, they all slumbered and slept.
  6. But at midnight there was a cry, ‘check this out! The bridegroom is coming! come through out to meet him!’
  7. then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.
  8. The dumb said to the smart, ‘hook it up us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.’
  9. But the smart answered, saying, ‘What if there isn’t enough for us and you? You slide rather to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.’
 10. While they went away to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast, and the door was shut.
 11. Afterward the other virgins also came, saying, ‘boss, boss, open to us.’
 12. But he answered, ‘Most for sure I tell you, I don’t get it you.’
 13. Watch so basically, for you don’t get it the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming.
 14. “For it is like a man, going into another country, who called his own servants, and entrusted his goods to them.
 15. To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one; to each according to his own ability. then he went on his journey.
 16. Immediately he who received the five talents went and traded with them, and made another five talents.
 17. In the same way, he also who got the two gained another two.
 18. But he who received the one went away and dug in the earth, and hid his boss’s money.
 19. “now after a long time the boss of those servants came, and reconciled accounts with them.
 20. He who received the five talents came and brought another five talents, saying, ‘boss, you delivered to me five talents. check this out, I have gained another five talents besides them.’
 21. “His boss said to him, ‘Well done, fire and faithful helper. You have been faithful over a not much things, I will set you over a lot things. Enter into the joy of your boss.’
 22. “He also who got the two talents came and said, ‘boss, you delivered to me two talents. check this out, I have gained another two talents besides them.’
 23. “His boss said to him, ‘Well done, fire and faithful helper. You have been faithful over a not much things, I will set you over a lot things. Enter into the joy of your boss.’
 24. “He also who had received the one talent came and said, ‘boss, I knew you that you are a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you did not scatter.
 25. I was scared, and went away and hid your talent in the earth. check this out, you have what is yours.’
 26. “But his boss answered him, ‘You wicked and slothful helper. You knew that I reap where I didn’t sow, and gather where I didn’t scatter.
 27. You ought so basically to have deposited my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received back my own with interest.
 28. grab away so basically the talent from him, and hook it up it to him who has the ten talents.
 29. For to everyone who has will be given, and he will have abundance, but from him who doesn’t have, even that which he has will be taken away.
 30. Throw out the unprofitable helper into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’
 31. “But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the set apart angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory.
 32. Before him all the nations will be gathered, and he will separate them one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
 33. He will set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.
 34. then the ruler will tell those on his right hand, ‘come through, blessed up of my Father, inherit the God's squad prepared for you from the foundation of the world;
 35. for I was hungry, and you gave me food to eat. I was thirsty, and you gave me drink. I was a stranger, and you took me in.
 36. I was naked, and you clothed me. I was sick, and you visited me. I was in prison, and you came to me.’
 37. “then the doing what's right will answer him, saying, ‘boss, when did we check it out you hungry, and feed you; or thirsty, and hook it up you a drink?
 38. When did we check it out you as a stranger, and grab you in; or naked, and clothe you?
 39. When did we check it out you sick, or in prison, and come through to you?’
 40. “The ruler will answer them, ‘Most for sure I tell you, inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.’
 41. then he will say also to those on the left hand, ‘Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire which is prepared for the devil and his angels;
 42. for I was hungry, and you didn’t hook it up me food to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me no drink;
 43. I was a stranger, and you didn’t grab me in; naked, and you didn’t clothe me; sick, and in prison, and you didn’t visit me.’
 44. “then they will also answer, saying, ‘boss, when did we check it out you hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and didn’t help out you?’
 45. “then he will answer them, saying, ‘Most for sure I tell you, inasmuch as you didn’t do it to one of the least of these, you didn’t do it to me.’
 46. These will slide away into eternal punishment, but the doing what's right into living forever.”

# Matthew Chapter 26

  1. It happened, when Jesus had finished all these words, that he said to his disciples,
  2. “You get it that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be crucified.”
  3. then the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders of the people were gathered together in the court of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas.
  4. They took counsel together that they might grab Jesus by deceit, and kill him.
  5. But they said, “Not during the feast, lest a riot occur among the people.”
  6. now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
  7. a woman came to him having an alabaster jar of hella expensive ointment, and she poured it on his head as he sat at the table.
  8. But when his disciples checked out this, they were indignant, saying, “Why this waste?
  9. For this ointment might have been sold for much, and given to the broke.”
 10. but like, knowing this, Jesus said to them, “Why do you trouble the woman? cuz she has done a fire work for me.
 11. For you always have the broke with you; but you don’t always have me.
 12. For in pouring this ointment on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial.
 13. Most for sure I tell you, wherever this fire News is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be spoken of as a memorial of her.”
 14. then one of the twelve, who was called Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests,
 15. and said, “What are you willing to hook it up me, that I should deliver him to you?” They weighed out for him thirty pieces of silver.
 16. From that time he sought opportunity to betray him.
 17. now on the day one of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying to him, “Where do you want us to prepare for you to eat the Passover?”
 18. He said, “slide into the city to a certain person, and tell him, ‘The Teacher says, “My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples.”’”
 19. The disciples did as Jesus commanded them, and they prepared the Passover.
 20. now when evening had come through, he was reclining at the table with the twelve disciples.
 21. As they were eating, he said, “Most for sure I tell you that one of you will betray me.”
 22. They were exceedingly sorrowful, and each began to ask him, “It isn’t me, is it, boss?”
 23. He answered, “He who dipped his hand with me in the dish, the same will betray me.
 24. The Son of Man goes, even as it is written of him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would be better for that man if he had not been born.”
 25. Judas, who betrayed him, answered, “It isn’t me, is it, teacher?” He said to him, “You said it.”
 26. As they were eating, Jesus took bread, gave thanks for it, and broke it. He gave to the disciples, and said, “grab, eat; this is my body.”
 27. He took the cup, gave thanks, and gave to them, saying, “All of you drink it,
 28. for this is my blood of the new God's promise, which is poured out for a lot for the remission of sins.
 29. But I tell you that I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on, until that day when I drink it anew with you in my Father’s God's squad.”
 30. When they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
 31. then Jesus said to them, “All of you will be made to stumble cuz of me tonight, for it is written, ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.’
 32. But after I am raised up, I will slide before you into Galilee.”
 33. But Peter answered him, “Even if all will be made to stumble cuz of you, I will never be made to stumble.”
 34. Jesus said to him, “Most for sure I tell you that tonight, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.”
 35. Peter said to him, “Even if I must die with you, I will not deny you.” All of the disciples also said likewise.
 36. then Jesus came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and said to his disciples, “Sit here, while I slide there and pray.”
 37. He took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and severely troubled.
 38. then he said to them, “My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here, and watch with me.”
 39. He went forward a little, fell on his face, and prayed, saying, “My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass away from me; nevertheless, not what I desire, but what you desire.”
 40. He came to the disciples, and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, “What, couldn’t you watch with me for one hour?
 41. Watch and pray, that you don’t enter into temptation. The spirit facts is willing, but the flesh is not it.”
 42. Again, a second time he went away, and prayed, saying, “My Father, if this cup can’t pass away from me unless I drink it, your desire be done.”
 43. He came again and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy.
 44. He left them again, went away, and prayed a third time, saying the same words.
 45. then he came to his disciples, and said to them, “Sleep on now, and grab your rest. check this out, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
 46. Arise, let’s be going. check this out, he who betrays me is at hand.”
 47. While he was still speaking, check this out, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a major multitude with swords and clubs, from the chief priest and elders of the people.
 48. now he who betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, “Whoever I kiss, he is the one. Seize him.”
 49. Immediately he came to Jesus, and said, “Hail, teacher!” and kissed him.
 50. Jesus said to him, “Friend, why are you here?” then they came and laid hands on Jesus, and took him.
 51. check this out, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand, and drew his sword, and struck the helper of the high priest, and struck off his ear.
 52. then Jesus said to him, “Put your sword back into its place, for all those who grab the sword will die by the sword.
 53. Or do you think that I couldn’t ask my Father, and he would even now send me more than twelve legions of angels?
 54. How then would the Scriptures be fulfilled that it must be so?”
 55. In that hour Jesus said to the multitudes, “Have you come through out as against a robber with swords and clubs to seize me? I sat daily in the God's house teaching, and you didn’t arrest me.
 56. But all this has happened, that the Scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled.” then all the disciples left him, and fled.
 57. Those who had taken Jesus led him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were gathered together.
 58. But Peter followed him from a distance, to the court of the high priest, and entered in and sat with the officers, to check it out the end.
 59. now the chief priests, the elders, and the whole council sought false testimony against Jesus, that they might put him to death;
 60. and they found none. Even though a lot false witnesses came forward, they found none. But at last two false witnesses came forward,
 61. and said, “This man said, ‘I am able to tear down the God's house of God, and to put together it in three days.’”
 62. The high priest stood up, and said to him, “Have you no answer? What is this that these testify against you?”
 63. But Jesus held his peace. The high priest answered him, “I adjure you by the living God, that you tell us whether you are the anointed one, the Son of God.”
 64. Jesus said to him, “You have said it. Nevertheless, I tell you, after this you will check it out the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power, and coming on the clouds of the sky.”
 65. then the high priest tore his clothing, saying, “He has spoken blasphemy! Why do we need any more witnesses? check this out, now you have heard his blasphemy.
 66. What do you think?” They answered, “He is worthy of death!”
 67. then they spit in his face and beat him with their fists, and some slapped him,
 68. saying, “Prophesy to us, you anointed one! Who hit you?”
 69. now Peter was sitting outside in the court, and a maid came to him, saying, “You were also with Jesus, the Galilean!”
 70. But he denied it before them all, saying, “I don’t get it what you are talking about.”
 71. When he had gone out onto the porch, someone else checked out him, and said to those who were there, “This man also was with Jesus of Nazareth.”
 72. Again he denied it with an oath, “I don’t get it the man.”
 73. After a little while those who stood by came and said to Peter, “Surely you are also one of them, for your speech makes you known.”
 74. then he began to curse and to swear, “I don’t get it the man!” Immediately the rooster crowed.
 75. Peter remembered the word which Jesus had said to him, “Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.” He went out and wept bitterly.

# Matthew Chapter 27

  1. now when morning had come through, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death:
  2. and they bound him, and led him away, and delivered him up to Pontius Pilate, the governor.
  3. then Judas, who betrayed him, when he checked out that Jesus was condemned, felt remorse, and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders,
  4. saying, “I have sinned in that I betrayed innocent blood.” But they said, “What is that to us? You check it out to it.”
  5. He threw down the pieces of silver in the sanctuary, and departed. He went away and hanged himself.
  6. The chief priests took the pieces of silver, and said, “It’s not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is the price of blood.”
  7. They took counsel, and bought the potter’s field with them, to bury strangers in.
  8. so basically that field was called “The Field of Blood” to this day.
  9. then that which was spoken through Jeremiah the God's messenger was fulfilled, saying, “They took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him upon whom a price had been set, whom some of the children of Israel priced,
 10. and they gave them for the potter’s field, as the boss commanded me.”
 11. now Jesus stood before the governor: and the governor asked him, saying, “Are you the ruler of the Jews?” Jesus said to him, “So you say.”
 12. When he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing.
 13. then Pilate said to him, “Don’t you hear how a lot things they testify against you?”
 14. He gave him no answer, not even one word, so that the governor marveled greatly.
 15. now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release to the multitude one prisoner, whom they desired.
 16. They had then a notable prisoner, called Barabbas.
 17. When so basically they were gathered together, Pilate said to them, “Whom do you want me to release to you? Barabbas, or Jesus, who is called anointed one?”
 18. For he knew that cuz of envy they had delivered him up.
 19. While he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, “Have nothing to do with that doing what's right man, for I have suffered a lot things this day in a dream cuz of him.”
 20. now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes to ask for Barabbas, and tear down Jesus.
 21. But the governor answered them, “Which of the two do you want me to release to you?” They said, “Barabbas!”
 22. Pilate said to them, “What then shall I do to Jesus, who is called anointed one?” They all said to him, “Let him be crucified!”
 23. But the governor said, “Why? What evil has he done?” But they cried out exceedingly, saying, “Let him be crucified!”
 24. So when Pilate checked out that nothing was being gained, but rather that a disturbance was starting, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, “I am innocent of the blood of this doing what's right person. You check it out to it.”
 25. All the people answered, “May his blood be on us, and on our children!”
 26. then he released to them Barabbas, but Jesus he flogged and delivered to be crucified.
 27. then the governor’s soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorium, and gathered the whole garrison together against him.
 28. They stripped him, and put a scarlet robe on him.
 29. They braided a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand; and they kneeled down before him, and mocked him, saying, “Hail, ruler of the Jews!”
 30. They spat on him, and took the reed and struck him on the head.
 31. When they had mocked him, they took the robe off of him, and put his clothes on him, and led him away to crucify him.
 32. As they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name, and they compelled him to slide with them, that he might carry his cross.
 33. They came to a place called “Golgotha,” that is to say, “The place of a skull.”
 34. They gave him sour wine to drink mixed with gall. When he had tasted it, he would not drink.
 35. When they had crucified him, they divided his clothing among them, casting lots,
 36. and they sat and watched him there.
 37. They set up over his head the accusation against him written, “THIS IS JESUS, THE ruler OF THE JEWS.”
 38. then there were two robbers crucified with him, one on his right hand and one on the left.
 39. Those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads,
 40. and saying, “You who tear down the God's house, and put together it in three days, rescue yourself! If you are the Son of God, come through down from the cross!”
 41. Likewise the chief priests also mocking, with the scribes, the Pharisees, and the elders, said,
 42. “He saved others, but he can’t rescue himself. If he is the ruler of Israel, let him come through down from the cross now, and we will believe in him.
 43. He trusts in God. Let God deliver him now, if he wants him; for he said, ‘I am the Son of God.’”
 44. The robbers also who were crucified with him cast on him the same reproach.
 45. now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour.
 46. About the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, “Eli, Eli, lima sabachthani?” That is, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”
 47. Some of them who stood there, when they heard it, said, “This man is calling Elijah.”
 48. Immediately one of them ran, and took a sponge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him a drink.
 49. The rest said, “Let him be. Let’s check it out whether Elijah comes to rescue him.”
 50. Jesus cried again with a loud voice, and yielded up his spirit.
 51. check this out, the veil of the God's house was torn in two from the top to the bottom. The earth quaked and the rocks were split.
 52. The tombs were opened, and a lot bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised;
 53. and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection, they entered into the set apart city and appeared to a lot.
 54. now the centurion, and those who were with him watching Jesus, when they checked out the earthquake, and the things that were done, feared exceedingly, saying, “deadass this was the Son of God.”
 55. a lot women were there watching from afar, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, serving him.
 56. Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
 57. When evening had come through, a stacked man from Arimathaea, named Joseph, who himself was also Jesus’ Jesus' crew came.
 58. This man went to Pilate, and asked for Jesus’ body. then Pilate commanded the body to be given up.
 59. Joseph took the body, and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth,
 60. and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut out in the rock, and he rolled a major stone to the door of the tomb, and departed.
 61. Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting opposite the tomb.
 62. now on the next day, which was the day after the Preparation Day, the chief priests and the Pharisees were gathered together to Pilate,
 63. saying, “Sir, we remember what that deceiver said while he was still alive: ‘After three days I will rise again.’
 64. Command so basically that the tomb be made secure until the day three, lest perhaps his disciples come through at night and steal him away, and tell the people, ‘He is risen from the dead;’ and the last deception will be worse than the first.”
 65. Pilate said to them, “You have a guard. slide, create it as secure as you can.”
 66. So they went with the guard and made the tomb secure, sealing the stone.

# Matthew Chapter 28

  1. now after the Sabbath, as it began to dawn on the day one of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to check it out the tomb.
  2. check this out, there was a major earthquake, for an angel of the boss descended from the sky, and came and rolled away the stone from the door, and sat on it.
  3. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow.
  4. For fear of him, the guards shook, and became like dead men.
  5. The angel answered the women, “Don’t be scared, for I get it that you seek Jesus, who has been crucified.
  6. He is not here, for he has risen, just like he said. come through, check it out the place where the boss was lying.
  7. slide quickly and tell his disciples, ‘He has risen from the dead, and check this out, he goes before you into Galilee; there you will check it out him.’ check this out, I have told you.”
  8. They departed quickly from the tomb with fear and major joy, and ran to bring his disciples word.
  9. As they went to tell his disciples, check this out, Jesus met them, saying, “be hyped!” They came and took hold of his feet, and worshiped him.
 10. then Jesus said to them, “Don’t be scared. slide tell my brothers that they should slide into Galilee, and there they will check it out me.”
 11. now while they were going, check this out, some of the guards came into the city, and told the chief priests all the things that had happened.
 12. When they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave a large amount of silver to the soldiers,
 13. saying, “Say that his disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept.
 14. If this comes to the governor’s ears, we will persuade him and create you free of worry.”
 15. So they took the money and did as they were told. This saying was spread abroad among the Jews, and continues until this day.
 16. But the eleven disciples went into Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had sent them.
 17. When they checked out him, they bowed down to him, but some doubted.
 18. Jesus came to them and spoke to them, saying, “All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth.
 19. slide, and create disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the set apart Spirit,
 20. teaching them to observe all things that I commanded you. check this out, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.” facts.


PHILEMON
--------

# Philemon Chapter 1

  1. Paul, a prisoner of anointed one Jesus, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon, our beloved fellow worker,
  2. to the beloved Apphia, to Archippus, our fellow soldier, and to the assembly in your house:
  3. God's show love to you and peace from God our Father and the boss Jesus anointed one.
  4. I thank my God always, making mention of you in my prayers,
  5. hearing of your show love, and of the trusting the process which you have toward the boss Jesus, and toward all the saints;
  6. that the fellowship of your trusting the process may become effective, in the knowledge of every fire thing which is in us in anointed one Jesus.
  7. For we have much joy and comfort in your show love, cuz the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you, brother.
  8. so basically, though I have all boldness in anointed one to command you that which is appropriate,
  9. yet for show love’s sake I rather beg, being such a one as Paul, the aged, but also a prisoner of Jesus anointed one.
 10. I beg you for my child, whom I have become the father of in my chains, Onesimus,
 11. who once was useless to you, but now is useful to you and to me.
 12. I am sending him back. so basically receive him, that is, my own heart,
 13. whom I desired to keep with me, that on your behalf he might help out me in my chains for the fire News.
 14. But I was willing to do nothing without your consent, that your goodness would not be as of necessity, but of free will.
 15. For perhaps he was so basically separated from you for a while, that you would have him forever,
 16. no longer as a helper, but more than a helper, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much rather to you, both in the flesh and in the boss.
 17. If then you count me a partner, receive him as you would receive me.
 18. But if he has wronged you at all, or owes you anything, put that to my account.
 19. I, Paul, write this with my own hand: I will repay it (not to mention to you that you owe to me even your own self besides).
 20. Yes, brother, let me have joy from you in the boss. Refresh my heart in the boss.
 21. Having confidence in your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even beyond what I say.
 22. Also, prepare a guest room for me, for I hope that through your prayers I will be restored to you.
 23. Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in anointed one Jesus, greets you,
 24. as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers.
 25. The God's show love of our boss Jesus anointed one be with your spirit. facts.


PHILIPPIANS
-----------

# Philippians Chapter 1

  1. Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus anointed one; To all the saints in anointed one Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and servants:
  2. God's show love to you, and peace from God, our Father, and the boss Jesus anointed one.
  3. I thank my God whenever I remember you,
  4. always in every request of mine on behalf of you all making my requests with joy,
  5. for your partnership in furtherance of the fire News from the day one until now;
  6. being confident of this hella thing, that he who began a fire work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus anointed one.
  7. It is even right for me to think this way on behalf of all of you, cuz I have you in my heart, cuz, both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the fire News, you all are partakers with me of God's show love.
  8. For God is my witness, how I long after all of you in the tender mercies of anointed one Jesus.
  9. This I pray, that your show love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all discernment;
 10. so that you may approve the things that are excellent; that you may be sincere and without offense to the day of anointed one;
 11. being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus anointed one, to the glory and praise of God.
 12. now I desire to have you get it, brothers, that the things which happened to me have turned out rather to the progress of the fire News;
 13. so that it became evident to the whole palace guard, and to all the rest, that my bonds are in anointed one;
 14. and that most of the brothers in the boss, being confident through my bonds, are more abundantly bold to spill the tea the word of God without fear.
 15. Some facts preach anointed one even out of envy and strife, and some also out of fire will.
 16. The former insincerely preach anointed one from selfish ambition, thinking that they add affliction to my chains;
 17. but the latter out of show love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the fire News.
 18. What does it matter? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, anointed one is proclaimed. I be hyped in this, yes, and will be hyped.
 19. For I get it that this will turn out to my getting saved, through your supplication and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus anointed one,
 20. according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I will in no way be disappointed, but with all boldness, as always, now also anointed one will be magnified in my body, whether by life, or by death.
 21. For to me to live is anointed one, and to die is gain.
 22. But if I live on in the flesh, this will bring fruit from my work; yet I don’t get it what I will choose.
 23. But I am in a dilemma between the two, having the desire to depart and be with anointed one, which is far better.
 24. Yet, to remain in the flesh is more needful for your sake.
 25. Having this confidence, I get it that I will remain, yes, and remain with you all, for your progress and joy in the trusting the process,
 26. that your rejoicing may abound in anointed one Jesus in me through my presence with you again.
 27. Only let your way of life be worthy of the fire News of anointed one, that, whether I come through and check it out you or am absent, I may hear of your state, that you stand firm in one spirit, with one soul striving for the trusting the process of the fire News;
 28. and in nothing frightened by the adversaries, which is for them a proof of destruction, but to you of getting saved, and that from God.
 29. cuz it has been granted to you on behalf of anointed one, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer on his behalf,
 30. having the same conflict which you checked out in me, and now hear is in me.

# Philippians Chapter 2

  1. If there is so basically any exhortation in anointed one, if any consolation of show love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any tender mercies and compassion,
  2. create my joy full, by being like-minded, having the same show love, being of one accord, of one mind;
  3. doing nothing through rivalry or through conceit, but in humility, each counting others better than himself;
  4. each of you not just looking to his own things, but each of you also to the things of others.
  5. Have this in your mind, which was also in anointed one Jesus,
  6. who, existing in the form of God, didn’t consider equality with God a thing to be grasped,
  7. but emptied himself, taking the form of a helper, being made in the likeness of men.
  8. And being found in human form, he humbled himself, becoming obedient to death, yes, the death of the cross.
  9. so basically God also highly exalted him, and gave to him the name which is above every name;
 10. that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, those on earth, and those under the earth,
 11. and that every tongue should confess that Jesus anointed one is boss, to the glory of God the Father.
 12. So then, my beloved, even as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence, work out your own getting saved with fear and trembling.
 13. For it is God who works in you both to will and to work, for his fire pleasure.
 14. Do all things without murmurings and disputes,
 15. that you may become blameless and harmless, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you are seen as lights in the world,
 16. holding up the word of life; that I may have something to boast in the day of anointed one, that I didn’t run in vain nor labor in vain.
 17. Yes, and if I am poured out on the giving it up and service of your trusting the process, I be hyped, and be hyped with you all.
 18. In the same way, you also be hyped, and be hyped with me.
 19. But I hope in the boss Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, that I also may be cheered up when I get it how you are doing.
 20. For I have no one else like-minded, who will deadass care about you.
 21. For they all seek their own, not the things of Jesus anointed one.
 22. But you get it the proof of him, that, as a child serves a father, so he served with me in furtherance of the fire News.
 23. so basically I hope to send him at once, as soon as I check it out how it will slide with me.
 24. But I trust in the boss that I myself also will come through shortly.
 25. But I counted it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow worker, fellow soldier, and your Jesus' main squad and helper of my need;
 26. since he longed for you all, and was hella troubled, cuz you had heard that he was sick.
 27. For facts he was sick, nearly to death, but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, that I might not have feeling down on feeling down.
 28. I have sent him so basically the more diligently, that, when you check it out him again, you may be hyped, and that I may be the less sorrowful.
 29. Receive him so basically in the boss with all joy, and hold such in honor,
 30. cuz for the work of anointed one he came near to death, risking his life to supply that which was lacking in your service toward me.

# Philippians Chapter 3

  1. Finally, my brothers, be hyped in the boss. To write the same things to you, to me facts is not tiresome, but for you it is safe.
  2. Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the false circumcision.
  3. For we are the circumcision, who giving props God in the Spirit, and be hyped in anointed one Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh;
  4. though I myself might have confidence even in the flesh. If any other man thinks that he has confidence in the flesh, I yet more:
  5. circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; concerning the law, a Pharisee;
  6. concerning zeal, persecuting the assembly; concerning the righteousness which is in the law, found blameless.
  7. but like, what things were gain to me, these have I counted loss for anointed one.
  8. Yes most for sure, and I count all things to be loss for the excellency of the knowledge of anointed one Jesus, my boss, for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and count them nothing but refuse, that I may gain anointed one
  9. and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own, that which is of the law, but that which is through trusting the process in anointed one, the righteousness which is from God by trusting the process;
 10. that I may get it him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, becoming conformed to his death;
 11. if by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead.
 12. Not that I have already obtained, or am already made perfect; but I press on, if it is so that I may grab hold of that for which also I was taken hold of by anointed one Jesus.
 13. Brothers, I don’t regard myself as yet having taken hold, but one thing I do. Forgetting the things which are behind, and stretching forward to the things which are before,
 14. I press on toward the goal for the prize of the high calling of God in anointed one Jesus.
 15. Let us so basically, as a lot as are perfect, think this way. If in anything you think otherwise, God will also reveal that to you.
 16. Nevertheless, to the extent that we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule. Let us be of the same mind.
 17. Brothers, be imitators together of me, and note those who walk this way, even as you have us for an example.
 18. For a lot walk, of whom I told you a lot, and now tell you even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of anointed one,
 19. whose end is destruction, whose god is the belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who think about earthly things.
 20. For our citizenship is in heaven, from where we also wait for a Savior, the boss Jesus anointed one;
 21. who will change the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working by which he is able even to subject all things to himself.

# Philippians Chapter 4

  1. so basically, my brothers, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand firm in the boss, my beloved.
  2. I exhort Euodia, and I exhort Syntyche, to think the same way in the boss.
  3. Yes, I beg you also, true yokefellow, help out these women, for they labored with me in the fire News, with Clement also, and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life.
  4. be hyped in the boss always! Again I will say, “be hyped!”
  5. Let your gentleness be known to all men. The boss is at hand.
  6. In nothing be anxious, but in everything, by talking to God and petition with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God.
  7. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your thoughts in anointed one Jesus.
  8. Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are honorable, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of fire report; if there is any virtue, and if there is any praise, think about these things.
  9. The things which you learned, received, heard, and checked out in me: do these things, and the God of peace will be with you.
 10. But I be hyped in the boss greatly, that now at length you have revived your thought for me; in which you did facts grab thought, but you lacked opportunity.
 11. Not that I spill the tea in respect to lack, for I have learned in whatever state I am, to be content in it.
 12. I get it how to be humbled, and I get it also how to abound. In everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be filled and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in need.
 13. I can do all things through anointed one, who strengthens me.
 14. but like you did well that you shared in my affliction.
 15. You yourselves also get it, you Philippians, that at the start of the fire News, when I departed from Macedonia, no assembly shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving but you only.
 16. For even in Thessalonica you sent once and again to my need.
 17. Not that I seek for the gift, but I seek for the fruit that increases to your account.
 18. But I have all things, and abound. I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things that came from you, a sweet-smelling fragrance, an acceptable and well-pleasing giving it up to God.
 19. My God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in anointed one Jesus.
 20. now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever! facts.
 21. Greet every saint in anointed one Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
 22. All the saints greet you, especially those who are of Caesar’s household.
 23. The God's show love of the boss Jesus anointed one be with you all. facts.


REVELATION
----------

# Revelation Chapter 1

  1. This is the Revelation of Jesus anointed one, which God gave him to show to his servants the things which must happen soon, which he sent and made known by his angel to his helper, John,
  2. who testified to God’s word, and of the testimony of Jesus anointed one, about everything that he checked out.
  3. blessed up is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it, for the time is at hand.
  4. John, to the seven assemblies that are in Asia: God's show love to you and peace, from God, who is and who was and who is to come through; and from the seven Spirits who are before his throne;
  5. and from Jesus anointed one, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To him who loves us, and washed us from our sins by his blood;
  6. and he made us to be a God's squad, priests to his God and Father; to him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever. facts.
  7. check this out, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will check it out him, including those who pierced him. All the tribes of the earth will mourn over him. Even so, facts.
  8. “I am the Alpha and the Omega,” says the boss God, “who is and who was and who is to come through, the Almighty.”
  9. I John, your brother and partner with you in oppression, God's squad, and perseverance in anointed one Jesus, was on the isle that is called Patmos cuz of God’s Word and the testimony of Jesus anointed one.
 10. I was in the Spirit on the boss’s day, and I heard behind me a loud voice, like a trumpet
 11. saying, “What you check it out, write in a book and send to the seven assemblies: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and to Laodicea.”
 12. I turned to check it out the voice that spoke with me. Having turned, I checked out seven golden lampstands.
 13. And among the lampstands was one like a son of man, clothed with a robe reaching down to his feet, and with a golden sash around his chest.
 14. His head and his hair were white as white wool, like snow. His eyes were like a flame of fire.
 15. His feet were like burnished brass, as if it had been refined in a furnace. His voice was like the voice of a lot waters.
 16. He had seven stars in his right hand. Out of his mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged sword. His face was like the sun shining at its brightest.
 17. When I checked out him, I fell at his feet like a dead man. He laid his right hand on me, saying, “Don’t be scared. I am the first and the last,
 18. and the Living one. I was dead, and check this out, I am alive forevermore. facts. I have the keys of Death and of Hades.
 19. Write so basically the things which you have seen, and the things which are, and the things which will happen hereafter;
 20. the mystery of the seven stars which you checked out in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands. The seven stars are the angels of the seven assemblies. The seven lampstands are seven assemblies.

# Revelation Chapter 2

  1. “To the angel of the assembly in Ephesus write: “He who holds the seven stars in his right hand, he who walks among the seven golden lampstands says these things:
  2. “I get it your works, and your toil and perseverance, and that you can’t tolerate evil men, and have tested those who call themselves apostles, and they are not, and found them false.
  3. You have perseverance and have endured for my name’s sake, and have not grown weary.
  4. But I have this against you, that you left your first show love.
  5. Remember so basically from where you have fallen, and turn it around and do the first works; or else I am coming to you swiftly, and will move your lampstand out of its place, unless you turn it around.
  6. But this you have, that you can't stand the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also can't stand.
  7. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. To him who overcomes I will hook it up to eat of the tree of life, which is in the Paradise of my God.
  8. “To the angel of the assembly in Smyrna write: “The first and the last, who was dead, and has come through to life says these things:
  9. “I get it your works, oppression, and your poverty (but you are stacked), and the blasphemy of those who say they are Jews, and they are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.
 10. Don’t be scared of the things which you are about to suffer. check this out, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested; and you will have oppression for ten days. Be faithful to death, and I will hook it up you the crown of life.
 11. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. He who overcomes won’t be harmed by the second death.
 12. “To the angel of the assembly in Pergamum write: “He who has the sharp two-edged sword says these things:
 13. “I get it your works and where you dwell, where Satan’s throne is. You hold firmly to my name, and didn’t deny my trusting the process in the days of Antipas my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
 14. But I have a not much things against you, cuz you have there some who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to throw a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit sexual immorality.
 15. So you also have some who hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans likewise.
 16. turn it around so basically, or else I am coming to you quickly, and I will create war against them with the sword of my mouth.
 17. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. To him who overcomes, to him I will hook it up of the hidden manna, and I will hook it up him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows but he who receives it.
 18. “To the angel of the assembly in Thyatira write: “The Son of God, who has his eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet are like burnished brass, says these things:
 19. “I get it your works, your show love, trusting the process, service, patient endurance, and that your last works are more than the first.
 20. But I have this against you, that you tolerate your woman, Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess. She teaches and seduces my servants to commit sexual immorality, and to eat things sacrificed to idols.
 21. I gave her time to turn it around, but she refuses to turn it around of her sexual immorality.
 22. check this out, I will throw her into a bed, and those who commit adultery with her into major oppression, unless they turn it around of her works.
 23. I will kill her children with Death, and all the assemblies will get it that I am he who searches the minds and hearts. I will hook it up to each one of you according to your deeds.
 24. But to you I say, to the rest who are in Thyatira, as a lot as don’t have this teaching, who don’t get it what some call ‘the deep things of Satan,’ to you I say, I am not putting any other burden on you.
 25. Nevertheless, hold that which you have firmly until I come through.
 26. He who overcomes, and he who keeps my works to the end, to him I will hook it up authority over the nations.
 27. He will rule them with a rod of iron, shattering them like clay pots; as I also have received of my Father:
 28. and I will hook it up him the morning star.
 29. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies.

# Revelation Chapter 3

  1. “And to the angel of the assembly in Sardis write: “He who has the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars says these things: “I get it your works, that you have a reputation of being alive, but you are dead.
  2. Wake up, and keep the things that remain, which you were about to throw away, for I have found no works of yours perfected before my God.
  3. Remember so basically how you have received and heard. Keep it, and turn it around. If so basically you won’t watch, I will come through as a thief, and you won’t get it what hour I will come through upon you.
  4. Nevertheless you have a not much names in Sardis that did not defile their garments. They will walk with me in white, for they are worthy.
  5. He who overcomes will be arrayed in white garments, and I will in no way blot his name out of the book of life, and I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.
  6. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies.
  7. “To the angel of the assembly in Philadelphia write: “He who is set apart, he who is true, he who has the key of David, he who opens and no one can shut, and who shuts and no one opens, says these things:
  8. “I get it your works (check this out, I have set before you an open door, which no one can shut), that you have a little power, and kept my word, and didn’t deny my name.
  9. check this out, I hook it up of the synagogue of Satan, of those who say they are Jews, and they are not, but lie. check this out, I will create them to come through and giving props before your feet, and to get it that I have loved you.
 10. cuz you kept my command to endure, I also will keep you from the hour of testing, which is to come through on the whole world, to test those who dwell on the earth.
 11. I am coming quickly! Hold firmly that which you have, so that no one takes your crown.
 12. He who overcomes, I will create him a pillar in the God's house of my God, and he will slide out from there no more. I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from my God, and my own new name.
 13. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies.
 14. “To the angel of the assembly in Laodicea write: “The facts, the Faithful and True Witness, the Head of God’s creation, says these things:
 15. “I get it your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were cold or hot.
 16. So, cuz you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will vomit you out of my mouth.
 17. cuz you say, ‘I am stacked, and have gotten riches, and have need of nothing;’ and don’t get it that you are the wretched one, miserable, broke, blind, and naked;
 18. I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, that you may become stacked; and white garments, that you may clothe yourself, and that the shame of your nakedness may not be revealed; and eye salve to anoint your eyes, that you may check it out.
 19. As a lot as I show love, I reprove and chasten. Be zealous so basically, and turn it around.
 20. check this out, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, then I will come through in to him, and will dine with him, and he with me.
 21. He who overcomes, I will hook it up to him to sit down with me on my throne, as I also overcame, and sat down with my Father on his throne.
 22. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies.”

# Revelation Chapter 4

  1. After these things I looked and checked out a door opened in heaven, and the first voice that I heard, like a trumpet speaking with me, was one saying, “come through up here, and I will show you the things which must happen after this.”
  2. Immediately I was in the Spirit. check this out, there was a throne set in heaven, and one sitting on the throne
  3. that looked like a jasper stone and a sardius. there was a rainbow around the throne, like an emerald to look at.
  4. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones. On the thrones were twenty-four elders sitting, dressed in white garments, with crowns of gold on their heads.
  5. Out of the throne proceed lightnings, sounds, and thunders. there were seven lamps of fire burning before his throne, which are the seven Spirits of God.
  6. Before the throne was something like a sea of glass, similar to crystal. In the midst of the throne, and around the throne were four living creatures full of eyes before and behind.
  7. The first creature was like a lion, and the second creature like a calf, and the third creature had a face like a man, and the fourth was like a flying eagle.
  8. The four living creatures, each one of them having six wings, are full of eyes around and within. They have no rest day and night, saying, “set apart, set apart, set apart is the boss God, the Almighty, who was and who is and who is to come through!”
  9. When the living creatures hook it up glory, honor, and thanks to him who sits on the throne, to him who lives forever and ever,
 10. the twenty-four elders fall down before him who sits on the throne, and giving props him who lives forever and ever, and throw their crowns before the throne, saying,
 11. “Worthy are you, our boss and God, the set apart One, to receive the glory, the honor, and the power, for you created all things, and cuz of your desire they existed, and were created!”

# Revelation Chapter 5

  1. I checked out, in the right hand of him who sat on the throne, a book written inside and outside, sealed shut with seven seals.
  2. I checked out a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, “Who is worthy to open the book, and to break its seals?”
  3. No one in heaven above, or on the earth, or under the earth, was able to open the book, or to look in it.
  4. And I wept much, cuz no one was found worthy to open the book, or to look in it.
  5. One of the elders said to me, “Don’t weep. check this out, the Lion who is of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome; he who opens the book and its seven seals.”
  6. I checked out in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb standing, as though it had been slain, having seven horns, and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God, sent out into all the earth.
  7. then he came, and he took it out of the right hand of him who sat on the throne.
  8. now when he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each one having a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints.
  9. They sang a new song, saying, “You are worthy to grab the book, and to open its seals: for you were killed, and bought us for God with your blood, out of every tribe, language, people, and nation,
 10. and made us kings and priests to our God, and we will reign on earth.”
 11. I checked out, and I heard something like a voice of a lot angels around the throne, the living creatures, and the elders; and the number of them was ten thousands of ten thousands, and thousands of thousands;
 12. saying with a loud voice, “Worthy is the Lamb who has been killed to receive the power, wealth, wisdom, strength, honor, glory, and blessing!”
 13. I heard every created thing which is in heaven, on the earth, under the earth, on the sea, and everything in them, saying, “To him who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb be the blessing, the honor, the glory, and the dominion, forever and ever! facts!”
 14. The four living creatures said, “facts!” The elders fell down and worshiped.

# Revelation Chapter 6

  1. I checked out that the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying, as with a voice of thunder, “come through and check it out!”
  2. And check this out, a white horse, and he who sat on it had a bow. A crown was given to him, and he came forth conquering, and to conquer.
  3. When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, “come through!”
  4. Another came forth, a red horse. To him who sat on it was given power to grab peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another. there was given to him a major sword.
  5. When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, “come through and check it out!” And check this out, a black horse, and he who sat on it had a balance in his hand.
  6. I heard a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, “A choenix of wheat for a denarius, and three choenix of barley for a denarius! Don’t damage the oil and the wine!”
  7. When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the fourth living creature saying, “come through and check it out!”
  8. And check this out, a pale horse, and he who sat on it, his name was Death. Hades followed with him. Authority over one fourth of the earth, to kill with the sword, with famine, with death, and by the wild animals of the earth was given to him.
  9. When he opened the fifth seal, I checked out underneath the prayer spot the souls of those who had been killed for the Word of God, and for the testimony of the Lamb which they had.
 10. They cried with a loud voice, saying, “How long, boss, the set apart and true, until you judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?”
 11. A long white robe was given to each of them. They were told that they should rest yet for a while, until their fellow servants and their brothers, who would also be killed even as they were, should complete their course.
 12. I checked out when he opened the sixth seal, and there was a major earthquake. The sun became black as sackcloth made of hair, and the whole moon became as blood.
 13. The stars of the sky fell to the earth, like a fig tree dropping its unripe figs when it is shaken by a major wind.
 14. The sky was removed like a scroll when it is rolled up. Every mountain and island were moved out of their places.
 15. The kings of the earth, the princes, the commanding officers, the stacked, the built different, and every helper and free person, hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains.
 16. They told the mountains and the rocks, “Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb,
 17. for the major day of his wrath has come through; and who is able to stand?”

# Revelation Chapter 7

  1. After this, I checked out four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, so that no wind would blow on the earth, or on the sea, or on any tree.
  2. I checked out another angel ascend from the sunrise, having the seal of the living God. He cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given to harm the earth and the sea,
  3. saying, “Don’t harm the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, until we have sealed the bondservants of our God on their foreheads!”
  4. I heard the number of those who were sealed, one hundred forty-four thousand, sealed out of every tribe of the children of Israel:
  5. of the tribe of Judah were sealed twelve thousand, of the tribe of Reuben twelve thousand, of the tribe of Gad twelve thousand,
  6. of the tribe of Asher twelve thousand, of the tribe of Naphtali twelve thousand, of the tribe of Manasseh twelve thousand,
  7. of the tribe of Simeon twelve thousand, of the tribe of Levi twelve thousand, of the tribe of Issachar twelve thousand,
  8. of the tribe of Zebulun twelve thousand, of the tribe of Joseph twelve thousand, of the tribe of Benjamin were sealed twelve thousand.
  9. After these things I looked, and check this out, a major multitude, which no man could number, out of every nation and of all tribes, peoples, and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, dressed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands.
 10. They cried with a loud voice, saying, “getting saved be to our God, who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb!”
 11. All the angels were standing around the throne, the elders, and the four living creatures; and they fell on their faces before his throne, and worshiped God,
 12. saying, “facts! Blessing, glory, wisdom, thanksgiving, honor, power, and might, be to our God forever and ever! facts.”
 13. One of the elders answered, saying to me, “These who are arrayed in white robes, who are they, and from where did they come through?”
 14. I told him, “My boss, you get it.” He said to me, “These are those who came out of the major tribulation. They washed their robes, and made them white in the Lamb’s blood.
 15. so basically they are before the throne of God, they help out him day and night in his God's house. He who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them.
 16. They will never be hungry, neither thirsty any more; neither will the sun beat on them, nor any heat;
 17. for the Lamb who is in the midst of the throne shepherds them, and leads them to springs of waters of life. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.”

# Revelation Chapter 8

  1. When he opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
  2. I checked out the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.
  3. Another angel came and stood over the prayer spot, having a golden censer. Much incense was given to him, that he should add it to the prayers of all the saints on the golden prayer spot which was before the throne.
  4. The smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, went up before God out of the angel’s hand.
  5. The angel took the censer, and he filled it with the fire of the prayer spot, and threw it on the earth. there followed thunders, sounds, lightnings, and an earthquake.
  6. The seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound.
  7. The first sounded, and there followed hail and fire, mixed with blood, and they were thrown to the earth. One third of the earth was burnt up, and one third of the trees were burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.
  8. The second angel sounded, and something like a major burning mountain was thrown into the sea. One third of the sea became blood,
  9. and one third of the living creatures which were in the sea died. One third of the ships were destroyed.
 10. The third angel sounded, and a major star fell from the sky, burning like a torch, and it fell on one third of the rivers, and on the springs of the waters.
 11. The name of the star is called “Wormwood.” One third of the waters became wormwood. a lot people died from the waters, cuz they were made bitter.
 12. The fourth angel sounded, and one third of the sun was struck, and one third of the moon, and one third of the stars; so that one third of them would be darkened, and the day wouldn’t shine for one third of it, and the night in the same way.
 13. I checked out, and I heard an eagle, flying in mid heaven, saying with a loud voice, “Woe! Woe! Woe for those who dwell on the earth, cuz of the other voices of the trumpets of the three angels, who are yet to sound!”

# Revelation Chapter 9

  1. The fifth angel sounded, and I checked out a star from the sky which had fallen to the earth. The key to the pit of the abyss was given to him.
  2. He opened the pit of the abyss, and smoke went up out of the pit, like the smoke from a burning furnace. The sun and the air were darkened cuz of the smoke from the pit.
  3. then out of the smoke came forth locusts on the earth, and power was given to them, as the scorpions of the earth have power.
  4. They were told that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree, but only those people who don’t have God’s seal on their foreheads.
  5. They were given power not to kill them, but to torment them for five months. Their torment was like the torment of a scorpion, when it strikes a person.
  6. In those days people will seek death, and will in no way find it. They will desire to die, and death will flee from them.
  7. The shapes of the locusts were like horses prepared for war. On their heads were something like golden crowns, and their faces were like people’s faces.
  8. They had hair like women’s hair, and their teeth were like those of lions.
  9. They had breastplates, like breastplates of iron. The sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots, or of a lot horses rushing to war.
 10. They have tails like those of scorpions, and stings. In their tails they have power to harm men for five months.
 11. They have over them as ruler the angel of the abyss. His name in Hebrew is “Abaddon,” but in Greek, he has the name “Apollyon.”
 12. The first woe is past. check this out, there are still two woes coming after this.
 13. The sixth angel sounded. I heard a voice from the horns of the golden prayer spot which is before God,
 14. saying to the sixth angel who had one trumpet, “Free the four angels who are bound at the major river Euphrates!”
 15. The four angels were freed who had been prepared for that hour and day and month and year, so that they might kill one third of mankind.
 16. The number of the armies of the horsemen was two hundred million. I heard the number of them.
 17. Thus I checked out the horses in the vision, and those who sat on them, having breastplates of fiery red, hyacinth blue, and sulfur yellow; and the heads of lions. Out of their mouths proceed fire, smoke, and sulfur.
 18. By these three plagues were one third of mankind killed: by the fire, the smoke, and the sulfur, which proceeded out of their mouths.
 19. For the power of the horses is in their mouths, and in their tails. For their tails are like serpents, and have heads, and with them they harm.
 20. The rest of mankind, who were not killed with these plagues, didn’t turn it around of the works of their hands, that they wouldn’t giving props demons, and the idols of gold, and of silver, and of brass, and of stone, and of wood; which can neither check it out, nor hear, nor walk.
 21. They didn’t turn it around of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their sexual immorality, nor of their thefts.

# Revelation Chapter 10

  1. I checked out a mighty angel coming down out of the sky, clothed with a cloud. A rainbow was on his head. His face was like the sun, and his feet like pillars of fire.
  2. He had in his hand a little open book. He set his right foot on the sea, and his left on the land.
  3. He cried with a loud voice, as a lion roars. When he cried, the seven thunders uttered their voices.
  4. When the seven thunders sounded, I was about to write; but I heard a voice from the sky saying, “Seal up the things which the seven thunders said, and don’t write them.”
  5. The angel whom I checked out standing on the sea and on the land lifted up his right hand to the sky,
  6. and swore by him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and the things that are in it, the earth and the things that are in it, and the sea and the things that are in it, that there will no longer be delay,
  7. but in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he is about to sound, then the mystery of God is finished, as he declared to his servants, the prophets.
  8. The voice which I heard from heaven, again speaking with me, said, “slide, grab the book which is open in the hand of the angel who stands on the sea and on the land.”
  9. I went to the angel, telling him to hook it up me the little book. He said to me, “grab it, and eat it up. It will create your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be as sweet as honey.”
 10. I took the little book out of the angel’s hand, and ate it up. It was as sweet as honey in my mouth. When I had eaten it, my stomach was made bitter.
 11. They told me, “You must prophesy again over a lot peoples, nations, languages, and kings.”

# Revelation Chapter 11

  1. A reed like a rod was given to me. Someone said, “Rise, and measure God’s God's house, and the prayer spot, and those who giving props in it.
  2. Leave out the court which is outside of the God's house, and don’t measure it, for it has been given to the nations. They will tread the set apart city under foot for forty-two months.
  3. I will hook it up power to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy one thousand two hundred sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.”
  4. These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands, standing before the boss of the earth.
  5. If anyone desires to harm them, fire proceeds out of their mouth and devours their enemies. If anyone desires to harm them, he must be killed in this way.
  6. These have the power to shut up the sky, that it may not rain during the days of their prophecy. They have power over the waters, to turn them into blood, and to strike the earth with every plague, as a lot as they desire.
  7. When they have finished their testimony, the beast that comes up out of the abyss will create war with them, and overcome them, and kill them.
  8. Their dead bodies will be in the street of the major city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also their boss was crucified.
  9. From among the peoples, tribes, languages, and nations people will look at their dead bodies for three and a half days, and will not allow their dead bodies to be laid in a tomb.
 10. Those who dwell on the earth be hyped over them, and they will be glad. They will hook it up gifts to one another, cuz these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth.
 11. After the three and a half days, the breath of life from God entered into them, and they stood on their feet. major fear fell on those who checked out them.
 12. I heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, “come through up here!” They went up into heaven in the cloud, and their enemies checked out them.
 13. In that day there was a major earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified, and gave glory to the God of heaven.
 14. The second woe is past. check this out, the third woe comes quickly.
 15. The seventh angel sounded, and major voices in heaven followed, saying, “The God's squad of the world has become the God's squad of our boss, and of his anointed one. He will reign forever and ever!”
 16. The twenty-four elders, who sit on their thrones before God’s throne, fell on their faces and worshiped God,
 17. saying: “We hook it up you thanks, boss God, the Almighty, the one who is and who was; cuz you have taken your major power, and reigned.
 18. The nations were mad salty, and your wrath came, as did the time for the dead to be judged, and to hook it up your bondservants the prophets, their reward, as well as to the saints, and those who fear your name, to the tiny and the major; and to tear down those who tear down the earth.”
 19. God’s God's house that is in heaven was opened, and the ark of the boss’s God's promise was seen in his God's house. Lightnings, sounds, thunders, an earthquake, and major hail followed.

# Revelation Chapter 12

  1. A major sign was seen in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars.
  2. She was with child. She cried out in pain, laboring to hook it up birth.
  3. Another sign was seen in heaven. check this out, a major red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven crowns.
  4. His tail drew one third of the stars of the sky, and threw them to the earth. The dragon stood before the woman who was about to hook it up birth, so that when she gave birth he might devour her child.
  5. She gave birth to a son, a male child, who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. Her child was caught up to God, and to his throne.
  6. The woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, that there they may nourish her one thousand two hundred sixty days.
  7. there was war in the sky. Michael and his angels made war on the dragon. The dragon and his angels made war.
  8. They didn’t prevail, neither was a place found for him any more in heaven.
  9. The major dragon was thrown down, the old serpent, he who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world. He was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him.
 10. I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, “now the getting saved, the power, and the God's squad of our God, and the authority of his anointed one has come through; for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them before our God day and night.
 11. They overcame him cuz of the Lamb’s blood, and cuz of the word of their testimony. They didn’t show love their life, even to death.
 12. so basically be hyped, heavens, and you who dwell in them. Woe to the earth and to the sea, cuz the devil has gone down to you, having major wrath, knowing that he has but a short time.”
 13. When the dragon checked out that he was thrown down to the earth, he persecuted the woman who gave birth to the male child.
 14. Two wings of the major eagle were given to the woman, that she might fly into the wilderness to her place, so that she might be nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.
 15. The serpent spewed water out of his mouth after the woman like a river, that he might cause her to be carried away by the stream.
 16. The earth helped the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed up the river which the dragon spewed out of his mouth.
 17. The dragon grew mad salty with the woman, and went away to create war with the rest of her seed, who keep God’s commandments and hold Jesus’ testimony.

# Revelation Chapter 13

  1. then I stood on the sand of the sea. I checked out a beast coming up out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads. On his horns were ten crowns, and on his heads, blasphemous names.
  2. The beast which I checked out was like a leopard, and his feet were like those of a bear, and his mouth like the mouth of a lion. The dragon gave him his power, his throne, and major authority.
  3. One of his heads looked like it had been wounded fatally. His fatal wound was healed, and the whole earth marveled at the beast.
  4. They worshiped the dragon, cuz he gave his authority to the beast, and they worshiped the beast, saying, “Who is like the beast? Who is able to create war with him?”
  5. A mouth speaking major things and blasphemy was given to him. Authority to create war for forty-two months was given to him.
  6. He opened his mouth for blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his dwelling, those who dwell in heaven.
  7. It was given to him to create war with the saints, and to overcome them. Authority over every tribe, people, language, and nation was given to him.
  8. All who dwell on the earth will giving props him, everyone whose name has not been written from the foundation of the world in the book of life of the Lamb who has been killed.
  9. If anyone has an ear, let him hear.
 10. If anyone is to slide into captivity, he will slide into captivity. If anyone is to be killed with the sword, he must be killed. here is the endurance and the trusting the process of the saints.
 11. I checked out another beast coming up out of the earth. He had two horns like a lamb, and he spoke like a dragon.
 12. He exercises all the authority of the first beast in his presence. He makes the earth and those who dwell in it to giving props the first beast, whose fatal wound was healed.
 13. He performs major signs, even making fire come through down out of the sky to the earth in the sight of people.
 14. He deceives my own people who dwell on the earth cuz of the signs he was granted to do in front of the beast; saying to those who dwell on the earth, that they should create an image to the beast who had the sword wound and lived.
 15. It was given to him to hook it up breath to it, to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both spill the tea, and cause as a lot as wouldn’t giving props the image of the beast to be killed.
 16. He causes all, the tiny and the major, the stacked and the broke, and the free and the helper, to be given marks on their right hands, or on their foreheads;
 17. and that no one would be able to buy or to sell, unless he has that mark, the name of the beast or the number of his name.
 18. here is wisdom. He who has understanding, let him calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man. His number is six hundred sixty-six.

# Revelation Chapter 14

  1. I checked out, and check this out, the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with him a number, one hundred forty-four thousand, having his name, and the name of his Father, written on their foreheads.
  2. I heard a sound from heaven, like the sound of a lot waters, and like the sound of a major thunder. The sound which I heard was like that of harpists playing on their harps.
  3. They sing a new song before the throne, and before the four living creatures and the elders. No one could pick up the song except the one hundred forty-four thousand, those who had been redeemed out of the earth.
  4. These are those who were not defiled with women, for they are virgins. These are those who roll with the Lamb wherever he goes. These were redeemed by Jesus from among men, the first fruits to God and to the Lamb.
  5. In their mouth was found no lie, for they are blameless.
  6. I checked out an angel flying in mid heaven, having an eternal fire News to proclaim to those who dwell on the earth, and to every nation, tribe, language, and people.
  7. He said with a loud voice, “Fear the boss, and hook it up him glory; for the hour of his judgment has come through. giving props him who made the heaven, the earth, the sea, and the springs of waters!”
  8. Another, a second angel, followed, saying, “Babylon the major has fallen, which has made all the nations to drink of the wine of the wrath of her sexual immorality.”
  9. Another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a major voice, “If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives a mark on his forehead, or on his hand,
 10. he also will drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is prepared unmixed in the cup of his anger. He will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the set apart angels, and in the presence of the Lamb.
 11. The smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever. They have no rest day and night, those who giving props the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name.
 12. here is the patience of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God, and the trusting the process of Jesus.”
 13. I heard the voice from heaven saying, “Write, ‘blessed up are the dead who die in the boss from now on.’” “Yes,” says the Spirit, “that they may rest from their labors; for their works roll with with them.”
 14. I looked, and check this out, a white cloud; and on the cloud one sitting like a son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle.
 15. Another angel came out from the God's house, crying with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, “Send forth your sickle, and reap; for the hour to reap has come through; for the harvest of the earth is ripe!”
 16. He who sat on the cloud thrust his sickle on the earth, and the earth was reaped.
 17. Another angel came out from the God's house which is in heaven. He also had a sharp sickle.
 18. Another angel came out from the prayer spot, he who has power over fire, and he called with a major voice to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, “Send forth your sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for the earth’s grapes are fully ripe!”
 19. The angel thrust his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vintage of the earth, and threw it into the major winepress of the wrath of God.
 20. The winepress was trodden outside of the city, and blood came out from the winepress, even to the bridles of the horses, as far as one thousand six hundred stadia.

# Revelation Chapter 15

  1. I checked out another major and marvelous sign in the sky: seven angels having the seven last plagues, for in them God’s wrath is finished.
  2. I checked out something like a sea of glass mixed with fire, and those who overcame the beast, his image, and the number of his name, standing on the sea of glass, having harps of God.
  3. They sang the song of Moses, the helper of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, “major and marvelous are your works, boss God, the Almighty! doing what's right and true are your ways, you ruler of the nations.
  4. Who wouldn’t fear you, boss, and glorify your name? For you only are set apart. For all the nations will come through and giving props before you. For your doing what's right acts have been revealed.”
  5. After these things I looked, and the God's house of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened.
  6. The seven angels who had the seven plagues came out, clothed with pure, bright linen, and wearing golden sashes around their breasts.
  7. One of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God, who lives forever and ever.
  8. The God's house was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and from his power. No one was able to enter into the God's house, until the seven plagues of the seven angels would be finished.

# Revelation Chapter 16

  1. I heard a loud voice out of the God's house, saying to the seven angels, “slide and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God on the earth!”
  2. The first went, and poured out his bowl into the earth, and it became a harmful and evil sore on the people who had the mark of the beast, and who worshiped his image.
  3. The second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became blood as of a dead man. Every living thing in the sea died.
  4. The third poured out his bowl into the rivers and springs of water, and they became blood.
  5. I heard the angel of the waters saying, “You are doing what's right, who are and who were, you set apart One, cuz you have judged these things.
  6. For they poured out the blood of the saints and the prophets, and you have given them blood to drink. They deserve this.”
  7. I heard the prayer spot saying, “Yes, boss God, the Almighty, true and doing what's right are your judgments.”
  8. The fourth poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was given to him to scorch men with fire.
  9. People were scorched with major heat, and people blasphemed the name of God who has the power over these plagues. They didn’t turn it around and hook it up him glory.
 10. The fifth poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and his God's squad was darkened. They gnawed their tongues cuz of the pain,
 11. and they blasphemed the God of heaven cuz of their pains and their sores. They didn’t turn it around of their works.
 12. The sixth poured out his bowl on the major river, the Euphrates. Its water was dried up, that the way might be prepared for the kings that come through from the sunrise.
 13. I checked out coming out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false God's messenger, three unclean spirits, something like frogs;
 14. for they are spirits of demons, performing signs; which slide forth to the kings of the whole inhabited earth, to gather them together for the war of that major day of God, the Almighty.
 15. “check this out, I come through like a thief. blessed up is he who watches, and keeps his clothes, so that he doesn’t walk naked, and they check it out his shame.”
 16. He gathered them together into the place which is called in Hebrew, Megiddo.
 17. The seventh poured out his bowl into the air. A loud voice came forth out of the God's house of heaven, from the throne, saying, “It is done!”
 18. there were lightnings, sounds, and thunders; and there was a major earthquake, such as was not since there were men on the earth, so major an earthquake, so mighty.
 19. The major city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. Babylon the major was remembered in the sight of God, to hook it up to her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.
 20. Every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.
 21. major hailstones, about the weight of a talent, came down out of the sky on people. People blasphemed God cuz of the plague of the hail, for this plague is exceedingly severe.

# Revelation Chapter 17

  1. One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, “come through here. I will show you the judgment of the major prostitute who sits on a lot waters,
  2. with whom the kings of the earth committed sexual immorality, and those who dwell in the earth were made drunken with the wine of her sexual immorality.”
  3. He carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness. I checked out a woman sitting on a scarlet-colored animal, full of blasphemous names, having seven heads and ten horns.
  4. The woman was dressed in purple and scarlet, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of the sexual immorality of the earth.
  5. And on her forehead a name was written, “MYSTERY, BABYLON THE major, THE MOTHER OF THE PROSTITUTES AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.”
  6. I checked out the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. When I checked out her, I wondered with major amazement.
  7. The angel said to me, “Why do you wonder? I will tell you the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carries her, which has the seven heads and the ten horns.
  8. The beast that you checked out was, and is not; and is about to come through up out of the abyss and to slide into destruction. Those who dwell on the earth and whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world will marvel when they check it out that the beast was, and is not, and shall be present.
  9. here is the mind that has wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sits.
 10. They are seven kings. Five have fallen, the one is, the other has not yet come through. When he comes, he must continue a little while.
 11. The beast that was, and is not, is himself also an eighth, and is of the seven; and he goes to destruction.
 12. The ten horns that you checked out are ten kings who have received no God's squad as yet, but they receive authority as kings, with the beast, for one hour.
 13. These have one mind, and they hook it up their power and authority to the beast.
 14. These will war against the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, for he is boss of lords, and ruler of kings. They also will overcome who are with him, called and chosen and faithful.”
 15. He said to me, “The waters which you checked out, where the prostitute sits, are peoples, multitudes, nations, and languages.
 16. The ten horns which you checked out, and the beast, these will can't stand the prostitute, and will create her desolate, and will create her naked, and will eat her flesh, and will burn her utterly with fire.
 17. For God has put in their hearts to do what he has in mind, and to be of one mind, and to hook it up their God's squad to the beast, until the words of God should be accomplished.
 18. The woman whom you checked out is the major city, which reigns over the kings of the earth.”

# Revelation Chapter 18

  1. After these things, I checked out another angel coming down out of the sky, having major authority. The earth was illuminated with his glory.
  2. He cried with a mighty voice, saying, “Fallen, fallen is Babylon the major, and she has become a habitation of demons, a prison of every unclean spirit, and a prison of every unclean and hateful bird!
  3. For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her sexual immorality, the kings of the earth committed sexual immorality with her, and the merchants of the earth grew stacked from the abundance of her luxury.”
  4. I heard another voice from heaven, saying, “come through out of her, my people, that you have no participation in her sins, and that you don’t receive of her plagues,
  5. for her sins have reached to the sky, and God has remembered her iniquities.
  6. Return to her just as she returned, and repay her double as she did, and according to her works. In the cup which she mixed, mix to her double.
  7. but like much she glorified herself, and grew wanton, so much hook it up her of torment and mourning. For she says in her heart, ‘I sit a ruler, and am no widow, and will in no way check it out mourning.’
  8. so basically in one day her plagues will come through: death, mourning, and famine; and she will be utterly burned with fire; for the boss God who has judged her is built different.
  9. The kings of the earth, who committed sexual immorality and lived wantonly with her, will weep and wail over her, when they look at the smoke of her burning,
 10. standing far away for the fear of her torment, saying, ‘Woe, woe, the major city, Babylon, the built different city! For your judgment has come through in one hour.’
 11. The merchants of the earth weep and mourn over her, for no one buys their merchandise any more;
 12. merchandise of gold, silver, precious stones, pearls, fine linen, purple, silk, scarlet, all expensive wood, every vessel of ivory, every vessel made of most precious wood, and of brass, and iron, and marble;
 13. and cinnamon, incense, perfume, frankincense, wine, olive oil, fine flour, wheat, sheep, horses, chariots, and people’s bodies and souls.
 14. The fruits which your soul lusted after have been lost to you, and all things that were dainty and sumptuous have perished from you, and you will find them no more at all.
 15. The merchants of these things, who were made stacked by her, will stand far away for the fear of her torment, weeping and mourning;
 16. saying, ‘Woe, woe, the major city, she who was dressed in fine linen, purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls!
 17. For in an hour such major riches are made desolate.’ Every shipmaster, and everyone who sails anywhere, and mariners, and as a lot as gain their living by sea, stood far away,
 18. and cried out as they looked at the smoke of her burning, saying, ‘What is like the major city?’
 19. They cast dust on their heads, and cried, weeping and mourning, saying, ‘Woe, woe, the major city, in which all who had their ships in the sea were made stacked by reason of her major wealth!’ For in one hour is she made desolate.
 20. “be hyped over her, O heaven, you saints, apostles, and prophets; for God has judged your judgment on her.”
 21. A mighty angel took up a stone like a major millstone and cast it into the sea, saying, “Thus with violence will Babylon, the major city, be thrown down, and will be found no more at all.
 22. The voice of harpists, minstrels, flute players, and trumpeters will be heard no more at all in you. No craftsman, of whatever craft, will be found any more at all in you. The sound of a mill will be heard no more at all in you.
 23. The light of a lamp will shine no more at all in you. The voice of the bridegroom and of the bride will be heard no more at all in you; for your merchants were the princes of the earth; for with your sorcery all the nations were deceived.
 24. In her was found the blood of prophets and of saints, and of all who have been slain on the earth.”

# Revelation Chapter 19

  1. After these things I heard something like a loud voice of a major multitude in heaven, saying, “praise God! getting saved, power, and glory belong to our God:
  2. for true and doing what's right are his judgments. For he has judged the major prostitute, who corrupted the earth with her sexual immorality, and he has avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.”
  3. A second said, “praise God! Her smoke goes up forever and ever.”
  4. The twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God who sits on the throne, saying, “facts! praise God!”
  5. A voice came forth from the throne, saying, “hook it up praise to our God, all you his servants, you who fear him, the tiny and the major!”
  6. I heard something like the voice of a major multitude, and like the voice of a lot waters, and like the voice of mighty thunders, saying, “praise God! For the boss our God, the Almighty, reigns!
  7. Let us be hyped and be exceedingly glad, and let us hook it up the glory to him. For the marriage of the Lamb has come through, and his wife has made herself ready.”
  8. It was given to her that she would array herself in bright, pure, fine linen: for the fine linen is the doing what's right acts of the saints.
  9. He said to me, “Write, ‘blessed up are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb.’” He said to me, “These are true words of God.”
 10. I fell down before his feet to giving props him. He said to me, “Look! Don’t do it! I am a fellow bondservant with you and with your brothers who hold the testimony of Jesus. giving props God, for the testimony of Jesus is the Spirit of Prophecy.”
 11. I checked out the heaven opened, and check this out, a white horse, and he who sat on it is called Faithful and True. In righteousness he judges and makes war.
 12. His eyes are a flame of fire, and on his head are a lot crowns. He has names written and a name written which no one knows but he himself.
 13. He is clothed in a garment sprinkled with blood. His name is called “The Word of God.”
 14. The armies which are in heaven followed him on white horses, clothed in white, pure, fine linen.
 15. Out of his mouth proceeds a sharp, double-edged sword, that with it he should strike the nations. He will rule them with an iron rod. He treads the winepress of the fierceness of the wrath of God, the Almighty.
 16. He has on his garment and on his thigh a name written, “ruler OF KINGS, AND boss OF LORDS.”
 17. I checked out an angel standing in the sun. He cried with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in the sky, “come through! Be gathered together to the major supper of God,
 18. that you may eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses and of those who sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and helper, and tiny and major.”
 19. I checked out the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to create war against him who sat on the horse, and against his army.
 20. The beast was taken, and with him the false God's messenger who worked the signs in his sight, with which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped his image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulfur.
 21. The rest were killed with the sword of him who sat on the horse, the sword which came forth out of his mouth. All the birds were filled with their flesh.

# Revelation Chapter 20

  1. I checked out an angel coming down out of heaven, having the key of the abyss and a major chain in his hand.
  2. He seized the dragon, the old serpent, which is the devil and Satan, who deceives the whole inhabited earth, and bound him for a thousand years,
  3. and cast him into the abyss, and shut it, and sealed it over him, that he should deceive the nations no more, until the thousand years were finished. After this, he must be freed for a short time.
  4. I checked out thrones, and they sat on them, and judgment was given to them. I checked out the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus, and for the word of God, and such as didn’t giving props the beast nor his image, and didn’t receive the mark on their forehead and on their hand. They lived, and reigned with anointed one for a thousand years.
  5. The rest of the dead didn’t live until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection.
  6. blessed up and set apart is he who has part in the first resurrection. Over these, the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of anointed one, and will reign with him one thousand years.
  7. And after the thousand years, Satan will be released from his prison,
  8. and he will come through out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to the war; the number of whom is as the sand of the sea.
  9. They went up over the breadth of the earth, and surrounded the camp of the saints, and the beloved city. Fire came down out of heaven from God, and devoured them.
 10. The devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur, where the beast and the false God's messenger are also. They will be tormented day and night forever and ever.
 11. I checked out a major white throne, and him who sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away. there was found no place for them.
 12. I checked out the dead, the major and the tiny, standing before the throne, and they opened books. Another book was opened, which is the book of life. The dead were judged out of the things which were written in the books, according to their works.
 13. The sea gave up the dead who were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them. They were judged, each one according to his works.
 14. Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire.
 15. If anyone was not found written in the book of life, he was cast into the lake of fire.

# Revelation Chapter 21

  1. I checked out a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth have passed away, and the sea is no more.
  2. I checked out the set apart city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared like a bride adorned for her husband.
  3. I heard a loud voice out of heaven saying, “check this out, God’s dwelling is with people, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God.
  4. He will wipe away from them every tear from their eyes. Death will be no more; neither will there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain, any more. The first things have passed away.”
  5. He who sits on the throne said, “check this out, I am making all things new.” He said, “Write, for these words of God are faithful and true.”
  6. He said to me, “It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. I will hook it up freely to him who is thirsty from the spring of the water of life.
  7. He who overcomes, I will hook it up him these things. I will be his God, and he will be my son.
  8. But for the cowardly, unbelieving, sinners, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their part is in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death.”
  9. One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls, who were loaded with the seven last plagues came, and he spoke with me, saying, “come through here. I will show you the wife, the Lamb’s bride.”
 10. He carried me away in the Spirit to a major and high mountain, and showed me the set apart city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God,
 11. having the glory of God. Her light was like a most precious stone, as if it were a jasper stone, clear as crystal;
 12. having a major and high wall; having twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels; and names written on them, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel.
 13. On the east were three gates; and on the north three gates; and on the south three gates; and on the west three gates.
 14. The wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them twelve names of the twelve Apostles of the Lamb.
 15. He who spoke with me had for a measure, a golden reed, to measure the city, its gates, and its walls.
 16. The city lies foursquare, and its length is as major as its breadth. He measured the city with the reed, Twelve thousand twelve stadia. Its length, breadth, and height are equal.
 17. Its wall is one hundred forty-four cubits, by the measure of a man, that is, of an angel.
 18. The construction of its wall was jasper. The city was pure gold, like pure glass.
 19. The foundations of the city’s wall were adorned with all kinds of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald;
 20. the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprasus; the eleventh, jacinth; and the twelfth, amethyst.
 21. The twelve gates were twelve pearls. Each one of the gates was made of one pearl. The street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass.
 22. I checked out no God's house in it, for the boss God, the Almighty, and the Lamb, are its God's house.
 23. The city has no need for the sun, neither of the moon, to shine, for the hella glory of God illuminated it, and its lamp is the Lamb.
 24. The nations will walk in its light. The kings of the earth bring the glory and honor of the nations into it.
 25. Its gates will in no way be shut by day (for there will be no night there),
 26. and they shall bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it so that they may enter.
 27. there will in no way enter into it anything profane, or one who causes an abomination or a lie, but only those who are written in the Lamb’s book of life.

# Revelation Chapter 22

  1. He showed me a river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb,
  2. in the middle of its street. On this side of the river and on that was the tree of life, bearing twelve kinds of fruits, yielding its fruit every month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
  3. there will be no curse any more. The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants help out him.
  4. They will check it out his face, and his name will be on their foreheads.
  5. there will be no night, and they need no lamp light; for the boss God will illuminate them. They will reign forever and ever.
  6. He said to me, “These words are faithful and true. The boss God of the spirits of the prophets sent his angel to show to his bondservants the things which must happen soon.”
  7. “check this out, I come through quickly. blessed up is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.”
  8. now I, John, am the one who heard and checked out these things. When I heard and checked out, I fell down to giving props before the feet of the angel who had shown me these things.
  9. He said to me, “check it out you don’t do it! I am a fellow bondservant with you and with your brothers, the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book. giving props God.”
 10. He said to me, “Don’t seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is at hand.
 11. He who acts unjustly, let him act unjustly still. He who is filthy, let him be filthy still. He who is doing what's right, let him do righteousness still. He who is set apart, let him be set apart still.”
 12. “check this out, I come through quickly. My reward is with me, to repay to each man according to his work.
 13. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.
 14. blessed up are those who do his commandments, that they may have the right to the tree of life, and may enter in by the gates into the city.
 15. Outside are the dogs, the sorcerers, the sexually immoral, the murderers, the idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood.
 16. I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify these things to you for the assemblies. I am the root and the offspring of David; the Bright and Morning Star.”
 17. The Spirit and the bride say, “come through!” He who hears, let him say, “come through!” He who is thirsty, let him come through. He who desires, let him grab the water of life freely.
 18. I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book, if anyone adds to them, may God add to him the plagues which are written in this book.
 19. If anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, may God grab away his part from the tree of life, and out of the set apart city, which are written in this book.
 20. He who testifies these things says, “Yes, I come through quickly.” facts! Yes, come through, boss Jesus.
 21. The God's show love of the boss Jesus anointed one be with all the saints. facts.


ROMANS
------

# Romans Chapter 1

  1. Paul, a helper of Jesus anointed one, called to be an Jesus' main squad, set apart for the fire News of God,
  2. which he promised before through his prophets in the set apart Scriptures,
  3. concerning his Son, who was born of the seed of David according to the flesh,
  4. who was declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead, Jesus anointed one our boss,
  5. through whom we received God's show love and apostleship, for obedience of trusting the process among all the nations, for his name’s sake;
  6. among whom you are also called to belong to Jesus anointed one;
  7. to all who are in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints: God's show love to you and peace from God our Father and the boss Jesus anointed one.
  8. First, I thank my God through Jesus anointed one for all of you, that your trusting the process is proclaimed throughout the whole world.
  9. For God is my witness, whom I help out in my spirit in the fire News of his Son, how unceasingly I create mention of you always in my prayers,
 10. requesting, if by any means now at last I may be prospered by the will of God to come through to you.
 11. For I long to check it out you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift, to the end that you may be established;
 12. that is, that I with you may be encouraged in you, each of us by the other’s trusting the process, both yours and mine.
 13. now I don’t desire to have you unaware, brothers, that I a lot planned to come through to you, and was hindered so far, that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among the rest of the Gentiles.
 14. I am debtor both to Greeks and to foreigners, both to the smart and to the dumb.
 15. So, as much as is in me, I am eager to preach the fire News to you also who are in Rome.
 16. For I am not ashamed of the fire News of anointed one, for it is the power of God for getting saved for everyone who believes; for the Jew first, and also for the Greek.
 17. For in it is revealed God’s righteousness from trusting the process to trusting the process. As it is written, “But the doing what's right shall live by trusting the process.”
 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who suppress the truth in unrighteousness,
 19. cuz that which is known of God is revealed in them, for God revealed it to them.
 20. For the invisible things of him since the creation of the world are clearly seen, being perceived through the things that are made, even his everlasting power and divinity; that they may be without excuse.
 21. cuz, knowing God, they didn’t glorify him as God, neither gave thanks, but became vain in their reasoning, and their senseless heart was darkened.
 22. Professing themselves to be smart, they became fools,
 23. and traded the glory of the incorruptible God for the likeness of an image of corruptible man, and of birds, and four-footed animals, and creeping things.
 24. so basically God also gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to uncleanness, that their bodies should be dishonored among themselves,
 25. who exchanged the truth of God for a lie, and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed up forever. facts.
 26. For this reason, God gave them up to vile passions. For their women changed the natural function into that which is against nature.
 27. Likewise also the men, leaving the natural function of the woman, burned in their lust toward one another, men doing what is inappropriate with men, and receiving in themselves the due penalty of their error.
 28. Even as they refused to have God in their knowledge, God gave them up to a reprobate mind, to do those things which are not fitting;
 29. being filled with all unrighteousness, sexual immorality, wickedness, covetousness, malice; full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, evil habits, secret slanderers,
 30. backbiters, hateful to God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents,
 31. without understanding, God's promise breakers, without natural affection, unforgiving, unmerciful;
 32. who, knowing the ordinance of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but also approve of those who practice them.

# Romans Chapter 2

  1. so basically you are without excuse, O man, whoever you are who judge. For in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you who judge practice the same things.
  2. We get it that the judgment of God is according to truth against those who practice such things.
  3. Do you think this, O man who judges those who practice such things, and do the same, that you will escape the judgment of God?
  4. Or do you despise the riches of his goodness, forbearance, and patience, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance?
  5. But according to your hardness and unrepentant heart you are treasuring up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath, revelation, and of the doing what's right judgment of God;
  6. who “will pay back to everyone according to their works:”
  7. to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory, honor, and incorruptibility, living forever;
  8. but to those who are self-seeking, and don’t obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, will be wrath and indignation,
  9. oppression and anguish, on every soul of man who works evil, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.
 10. But glory, honor, and peace slide to every man who works fire, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.
 11. For there is no partiality with God.
 12. For as a lot as have sinned without law will also perish without the law. As a lot as have sinned under the law will be judged by the law.
 13. For it isn’t the hearers of the law who are doing what's right before God, but the doers of the law will be justified
 14. (for when Gentiles who don’t have the law do by nature the things of the law, these, not having the law, are a law to themselves,
 15. in that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience testifying with them, and their thoughts among themselves accusing or else excusing them)
 16. in the day when God will judge the secrets of men, according to my fire News, by Jesus anointed one.
 17. facts you bear the name of a Jew, and rest on the law, and glory in God,
 18. and get it his will, and approve the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law,
 19. and are confident that you yourself are a guide of the blind, a light to those who are in darkness,
 20. a corrector of the dumb, a teacher of babies, having in the law the form of knowledge and of the truth.
 21. You so basically who drop knowledge another, don’t you drop knowledge yourself? You who preach that a man shouldn’t steal, do you steal?
 22. You who say a man shouldn’t commit adultery. Do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples?
 23. You who glory in the law, through your disobedience of the law do you dishonor God?
 24. For “the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles cuz of you,” just as it is written.
 25. For circumcision facts profits, if you are a doer of the law, but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision.
 26. If so basically the uncircumcised keep the ordinances of the law, won’t his uncircumcision be accounted as circumcision?
 27. Won’t the uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfills the law, judge you, who with the letter and circumcision are a transgressor of the law?
 28. For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh;
 29. but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit not in the letter; whose praise is not from men, but from God.

# Romans Chapter 3

  1. then what advantage does the Jew have? Or what is the profit of circumcision?
  2. Much in every way! cuz first of all, they were entrusted with the oracles of God.
  3. For what if some were without trusting the process? Will their lack of trusting the process nullify the faithfulness of God?
  4. May it never be! Yes, let God be found true, but every man a liar. As it is written, “That you might be justified in your words, and might prevail when you come through into judgment.”
  5. But if our unrighteousness commends the righteousness of God, what will we say? Is God unrighteous who inflicts wrath? I spill the tea like men do.
  6. May it never be! For then how will God judge the world?
  7. For if the truth of God through my lie abounded to his glory, why am I also still judged as a sinner?
  8. Why not (as we are slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say), “Let us do evil, that fire may come through?” Those who say so are justly condemned.
  9. What then? Are we better than they? No, in no way. For we previously warned both Jews and Greeks, that they are all under messing up.
 10. As it is written, “there is no one doing what's right; no, not one.
 11. there is no one who understands. there is no one who seeks after God.
 12. They have all turned aside. They have together become unprofitable. there is no one who does fire, no, not, so much as one.”
 13. “Their throat is an open tomb. With their tongues they have used deceit.” “The poison of vipers is under their lips;”
 14. “whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness.”
 15. “Their feet are swift to shed blood.
 16. Destruction and misery are in their ways.
 17. The way of peace, they haven’t known.”
 18. “there is no fear of God before their eyes.”
 19. now we get it that whatever things the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, that every mouth may be closed, and all the world may be brought under the judgment of God.
 20. cuz by the works of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight. For through the law comes the knowledge of messing up.
 21. But now apart from the law, a righteousness of God has been revealed, being testified by the law and the prophets;
 22. even the righteousness of God through trusting the process in Jesus anointed one to all and on all those who believe. For there is no distinction,
 23. for all have sinned, and fall short of the glory of God;
 24. being justified freely by his God's show love through the redemption that is in anointed one Jesus;
 25. whom God set forth to be an atoning giving it up, through trusting the process in his blood, for a demonstration of his righteousness through the passing over of prior sins, in God’s forbearance;
 26. to demonstrate his righteousness at this present time; that he might himself be just, and the justifier of him who has trusting the process in Jesus.
 27. Where then is the boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? Of works? No, but by a law of trusting the process.
 28. We maintain so basically that a man is justified by trusting the process apart from the works of the law.
 29. Or is God the God of Jews only? Isn’t he the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also,
 30. since facts there is one God who will justify the circumcised by trusting the process, and the uncircumcised through trusting the process.
 31. Do we then nullify the law through trusting the process? May it never be! No, we establish the law.

# Romans Chapter 4

  1. What then will we say that Abraham, our forefather, has found according to the flesh?
  2. For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not toward God.
  3. For what does the Scripture say? “Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness.”
  4. now to him who works, the reward is not counted as God's show love, but as something owed.
  5. But to him who doesn’t work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his trusting the process is accounted for righteousness.
  6. Even as David also pronounces blessing on the man to whom God counts righteousness apart from works,
  7. “blessed up are they whose iniquities are forgiven, whose sins are covered.
  8. blessed up is the man whom the boss will by no means charge with messing up.”
  9. Is this blessing then pronounced on the circumcised, or on the uncircumcised also? For we say that trusting the process was accounted to Abraham for righteousness.
 10. How then was it counted? When he was in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
 11. He received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the trusting the process which he had while he was in uncircumcision, that he might be the father of all those who believe, though they might be in uncircumcision, that righteousness might also be accounted to them.
 12. He is the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also walk in the steps of that trusting the process of our father Abraham, which he had in uncircumcision.
 13. For the promise to Abraham and to his seed that he should be heir of the world wasn’t through the law, but through the righteousness of trusting the process.
 14. For if those who are of the law are heirs, trusting the process is made void, and the promise is made of no effect.
 15. For the law works wrath, for where there is no law, neither is there disobedience.
 16. For this cause it is of trusting the process, that it may be according to God's show love, to the end that the promise may be sure to all the seed, not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the trusting the process of Abraham, who is the father of us all.
 17. As it is written, “I have made you a father of a lot nations.” This is in the presence of him whom he believed: God, who gives life to the dead, and calls the things that are not, as though they were.
 18. Who in hope believed against hope, to the end that he might become a father of a lot nations, according to that which had been spoken, “So will your seed be.”
 19. Without being weakened in trusting the process, he didn’t consider his own body, already having been worn out, (he being about a hundred years old), and the deadness of Sarah’s womb.
 20. Yet, looking to the promise of God, he didn’t waver through unbelief, but grew built different through trusting the process, giving glory to God,
 21. and being fully assured that what he had promised, he was also able to perform.
 22. so basically it also was “reckoned to him for righteousness.”
 23. now it was not written that it was accounted to him for his sake alone,
 24. but for our sake also, to whom it will be accounted, who believe in him who raised Jesus, our boss, from the dead,
 25. who was delivered up for our trespasses, and was raised for our justification.

# Romans Chapter 5

  1. Being so basically justified by trusting the process, we have peace with God through our boss Jesus anointed one;
  2. through whom we also have our access by trusting the process into this God's show love in which we stand. We be hyped in hope of the glory of God.
  3. Not only this, but we also be hyped in our sufferings, knowing that suffering works perseverance;
  4. and perseverance, proven character; and proven character, hope:
  5. and hope doesn’t disappoint us, cuz God’s show love has been poured out into our hearts through the set apart Spirit who was given to us.
  6. For while we were yet not it, at the right time anointed one died for the ungodly.
  7. For one will hardly die for a doing what's right man. Yet perhaps for a doing what's right person someone would even dare to die.
  8. But God commends his own show love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, anointed one died for us.
  9. Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we will be saved from God’s wrath through him.
 10. For if, while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we will be saved by his life.
 11. Not only so, but we also be hyped in God through our boss Jesus anointed one, through whom we have now received the reconciliation.
 12. so basically, as messing up entered into the world through one man, and death through messing up; and so death passed to all men, cuz all sinned.
 13. For until the law, messing up was in the world; but messing up is not charged when there is no law.
 14. Nevertheless death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those whose sins weren’t like Adam’s disobedience, who is a foreshadowing of him who was to come through.
 15. But the free gift isn’t like the trespass. For if by the trespass of the one the a lot died, much more did the God's show love of God, and the gift by the God's show love of the one man, Jesus anointed one, abound to the a lot.
 16. The gift is not as through one who sinned: for the judgment came by one to condemnation, but the free gift came of a lot trespasses to justification.
 17. For if by the trespass of the one, death reigned through the one; so much more will those who receive the abundance of God's show love and of the gift of righteousness reign in life through the one, Jesus anointed one.
 18. So then as through one trespass, all men were condemned; even so through one act of righteousness, all men were justified to life.
 19. For as through the one man’s disobedience a lot were made sinners, even so through the obedience of the one, a lot will be made doing what's right.
 20. The law came in besides, that the trespass might abound; but where messing up abounded, God's show love abounded more exceedingly;
 21. that as messing up reigned in death, even so God's show love might reign through righteousness to living forever through Jesus anointed one our boss.

# Romans Chapter 6

  1. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in messing up, that God's show love may abound?
  2. May it never be! We who died to messing up, how could we live in it any longer?
  3. Or don’t you get it that all we who were baptized into anointed one Jesus were baptized into his death?
  4. We were buried so basically with him through baptism to death, that just like anointed one was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we also might walk in newness of life.
  5. For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, we will also be part of his resurrection;
  6. knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of messing up might be done away with, so that we would no longer be in bondage to messing up.
  7. For he who has died has been freed from messing up.
  8. But if we died with anointed one, we believe that we will also live with him;
  9. knowing that anointed one, being raised from the dead, dies no more. Death no more has dominion over him!
 10. For the death that he died, he died to messing up one time; but the life that he lives, he lives to God.
 11. Thus consider yourselves also to be dead to messing up, but alive to God in anointed one Jesus our boss.
 12. so basically don’t let messing up reign in your mortal body, that you should obey it in its lusts.
 13. Neither present your members to messing up as instruments of unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God, as alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God.
 14. For messing up will not have dominion over you. For you are not under law, but under God's show love.
 15. What then? Shall we messing up, cuz we are not under law, but under God's show love? May it never be!
 16. Don’t you get it that to whom you present yourselves as servants to obedience, his servants you are whom you obey; whether of messing up to death, or of obedience to righteousness?
 17. But thanks be to God, that, whereas you were bondservants of messing up, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching whereunto you were delivered.
 18. Being made free from messing up, you became bondservants of righteousness.
 19. I spill the tea in human terms cuz of the weakness of your flesh, for as you presented your members as servants to uncleanness and to wickedness upon wickedness, even so now present your members as servants to righteousness for sanctification.
 20. For when you were servants of messing up, you were free in regard to righteousness.
 21. What fruit then did you have at that time in the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death.
 22. But now, being made free from messing up, and having become servants of God, you have your fruit of sanctification, and the result of living forever.
 23. For the wages of messing up is death, but the free gift of God is living forever in anointed one Jesus our boss.

# Romans Chapter 7

  1. Or don’t you get it, brothers (for I spill the tea to men who get it the law), that the law has dominion over a man for as long as he lives?
  2. For the woman that has a husband is bound by law to the husband while he lives, but if the husband dies, she is discharged from the law of the husband.
  3. So then if, while the husband lives, she is joined to another man, she would be called an adulteress. But if the husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is no adulteress, though she is joined to another man.
  4. so basically, my brothers, you also were made dead to the law through the body of anointed one, that you would be joined to another, to him who was raised from the dead, that we might bring forth fruit to God.
  5. For when we were in the flesh, the sinful passions which were through the law, worked in our members to bring forth fruit to death.
  6. But now we have been discharged from the law, having died to that in which we were held; so that we help out in newness of the spirit, and not in oldness of the letter.
  7. What shall we say then? Is the law messing up? May it never be! but like, I wouldn’t have known messing up, except through the law. For I wouldn’t have known coveting, unless the law had said, “You shall not covet.”
  8. But messing up, finding occasion through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of coveting. For apart from the law, messing up is dead.
  9. I was alive apart from the law once, but when the commandment came, messing up revived, and I died.
 10. The commandment, which was for life, this I found to be for death;
 11. for messing up, finding occasion through the commandment, deceived me, and through it killed me.
 12. so basically the law facts is set apart, and the commandment set apart, and doing what's right, and fire.
 13. Did then that which is fire become death to me? May it never be! But messing up, that it might be shown to be messing up, by working death to me through that which is fire; that through the commandment messing up might become exceeding sinful.
 14. For we get it that the law is spiritual, but I am fleshly, sold under messing up.
 15. For I don’t get it what I am doing. For I don’t practice what I desire to do; but what I can't stand, that I do.
 16. But if what I don’t desire, that I do, I consent to the law that it is fire.
 17. So now it is no more I that do it, but messing up which dwells in me.
 18. For I get it that in me, that is, in my flesh, dwells no fire thing. For desire is present with me, but I don’t find it doing that which is fire.
 19. For the fire which I desire, I don’t do; but the evil which I don’t desire, that I practice.
 20. But if what I don’t desire, that I do, it is no more I that do it, but messing up which dwells in me.
 21. I find then the law, that, to me, while I desire to do fire, evil is present.
 22. For I delight in God’s law after the inward man,
 23. but I check it out a different law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity under the law of messing up which is in my members.
 24. What a wretched man I am! Who will deliver me out of the body of this death?
 25. I thank God through Jesus anointed one, our boss! So then with the mind, I myself help out God’s law, but with the flesh, the messing up’s law.

# Romans Chapter 8

  1. there is so basically now no condemnation to those who are in anointed one Jesus, who don’t walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit.
  2. For the law of the Spirit of life in anointed one Jesus made me free from the law of messing up and of death.
  3. For what the law couldn’t do, in that it was not it through the flesh, God did, sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for messing up, he condemned messing up in the flesh;
  4. that the ordinance of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
  5. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit.
  6. For the mind of the flesh is death, but the mind of the Spirit is life and peace;
  7. cuz the mind of the flesh is hostile towards God; for it is not subject to God’s law, neither facts can it be.
  8. Those who are in the flesh can’t please God.
  9. But you are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if it is so that the Spirit of God dwells in you. But if any man doesn’t have the Spirit of anointed one, he is not his.
 10. If anointed one is in you, the body is dead cuz of messing up, but the spirit is alive cuz of righteousness.
 11. But if the Spirit of him who raised up Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised up anointed one Jesus from the dead will also hook it up life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you.
 12. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh.
 13. For if you live after the flesh, you must die; but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live.
 14. For as a lot as are led by the Spirit of God, these are children of God.
 15. For you didn’t receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the Spirit of adoption, by whom we cry, “dad! Father!”
 16. The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are children of God;
 17. and if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint heirs with anointed one; if facts we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified with him.
 18. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which will be revealed toward us.
 19. For the creation waits with eager expectation for the children of God to be revealed.
 20. For the creation was subjected to vanity, not of its own will, but cuz of him who subjected it, in hope
 21. that the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of decay into the liberty of the glory of the children of God.
 22. For we get it that the whole creation groans and travails in pain together until now.
 23. Not only so, but ourselves also, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for adoption, the redemption of our body.
 24. For we were saved in hope, but hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for that which he sees?
 25. But if we hope for that which we don’t check it out, we wait for it with patience.
 26. In the same way, the Spirit also helps our weaknesses, for we don’t get it how to pray as we ought. But the Spirit himself makes intercession for us with groanings which can’t be uttered.
 27. He who searches the hearts knows what is on the Spirit’s mind, cuz he makes intercession for the saints according to God.
 28. We get it that all things work together for fire for those who show love God, to those who are called according to his purpose.
 29. For whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among a lot brothers.
 30. Whom he predestined, those he also called. Whom he called, those he also justified. Whom he justified, those he also glorified.
 31. What then shall we say about these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
 32. He who didn’t spare his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how would he not also with him freely hook it up us all things?
 33. Who could bring a charge against God’s chosen ones? It is God who justifies.
 34. Who is he who condemns? It is anointed one who died, yes rather, who was raised from the dead, who is at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us.
 35. Who shall separate us from the show love of anointed one? Could oppression, or anguish, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?
 36. Even as it is written, “For your sake we are killed all day long. We were accounted as sheep for the slaughter.”
 37. No, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.
 38. For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come through, nor powers,
 39. nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing, will be able to separate us from the show love of God, which is in anointed one Jesus our boss.

# Romans Chapter 9

  1. I tell the truth in anointed one. I am not lying, my conscience testifying with me in the set apart Spirit,
  2. that I have major feeling down and unceasing pain in my heart.
  3. For I could wish that I myself were accursed from anointed one for my brothers’ sake, my relatives according to the flesh,
  4. who are Israelites; whose is the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the service, and the promises;
  5. of whom are the fathers, and from whom is anointed one as concerning the flesh, who is over all, God, blessed up forever. facts.
  6. But it is not as though the word of God has come through to nothing. For they are not all Israel, that are of Israel.
  7. Neither, cuz they are Abraham’s seed, are they all children. But, “In Isaac will your seed be called.”
  8. That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are children of God, but the children of the promise are counted as a seed.
  9. For this is a word of promise, “At the appointed time I will come through, and Sarah will have a son.”
 10. Not only so, but Rebecca also conceived by one, by our father Isaac.
 11. For being not yet born, neither having done anything fire or trash, that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him who calls,
 12. it was said to her, “The elder will help out the younger.”
 13. Even as it is written, “Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated.”
 14. What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? May it never be!
 15. For he said to Moses, “I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.”
 16. So then it is not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who has mercy.
 17. For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, “For this hella purpose I caused you to be raised up, that I might show in you my power, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth.”
 18. So then, he has mercy on whom he desires, and he hardens whom he desires.
 19. You will say then to me, “Why does he still find fault? For who withstands his will?”
 20. But facts, O man, who are you to reply against God? Will the thing formed ask him who formed it, “Why did you create me like this?”
 21. Or hasn’t the potter a right over the clay, from the same lump to create one part a vessel for honor, and another for dishonor?
 22. What if God, willing to show his wrath, and to create his power known, endured with much patience vessels of wrath made for destruction,
 23. and that he might create known the riches of his glory on vessels of mercy, which he prepared beforehand for glory,
 24. us, whom he also called, not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles?
 25. As he says also in Hosea, “I will call them ‘my people,’ which were not my people; and her ‘beloved,’ who was not beloved.”
 26. “It will be that in the place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’ there they will be called ‘children of the living God.’”
 27. Isaiah cries concerning Israel, “If the number of the children of Israel are as the sand of the sea, it is the remnant who will be saved;
 28. for He will finish the work and cut it short in righteousness, cuz the boss will create a short work upon the earth.”
 29. As Isaiah has said before, “Unless the boss of Armies had left us a seed, we would have become like Sodom, and would have been made like Gomorrah.”
 30. What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, who didn’t roll with after righteousness, attained to righteousness, even the righteousness which is of trusting the process;
 31. but Israel, following after a law of righteousness, didn’t arrive at the law of righteousness.
 32. Why? cuz they didn’t seek it by trusting the process, but as it were by works of the law. They stumbled over the stumbling stone;
 33. even as it is written, “check this out, I lay in Zion a stumbling stone and a rock of offense; and no one who believes in him will be disappointed.”

# Romans Chapter 10

  1. Brothers, my heart’s desire and my talking to God to God is for Israel, that they may be saved.
  2. For I testify about them that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge.
  3. For being ignorant of God’s righteousness, and seeking to establish their own righteousness, they didn’t subject themselves to the righteousness of God.
  4. For anointed one is the fulfillment of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes.
  5. For Moses writes about the righteousness of the law, “The one who does them will live by them.”
  6. But the righteousness which is of trusting the process says this, “Don’t say in your heart, ‘Who will ascend into heaven?’ (that is, to bring anointed one down);
  7. or, ‘Who will descend into the abyss?’ (that is, to bring anointed one up from the dead.)”
  8. But what does it say? “The word is near you, in your mouth, and in your heart;” that is, the word of trusting the process, which we preach:
  9. that if you will confess with your mouth that Jesus is boss, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
 10. For with the heart, one believes unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto getting saved.
 11. For the Scripture says, “Whoever believes in him will not be disappointed.”
 12. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; for the same boss is boss of all, and is stacked to all who call on him.
 13. For, “Whoever will call on the name of the boss will be saved.”
 14. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? How will they believe in him whom they have not heard? How will they hear without a preacher?
 15. And how will they preach unless they are sent? As it is written: “How snatched are the feet of those who preach the fire News of peace, who bring glad tidings of fire things!”
 16. But they didn’t all listen up to the glad news. For Isaiah says, “boss, who has believed our report?”
 17. So trusting the process comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.
 18. But I say, didn’t they hear? Yes, most for sure, “Their sound went out into all the earth, their words to the ends of the world.”
 19. But I ask, didn’t Israel get it? First Moses says, “I will provoke you to jealousy with that which is no nation, with a nation void of understanding I will create you mad salty.”
 20. Isaiah is hella bold, and says, “I was found by those who didn’t seek me. I was revealed to those who didn’t ask for me.”
 21. But as to Israel he says, “All day long I stretched out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people.”

# Romans Chapter 11

  1. I ask then, did God reject his people? May it never be! For I also am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
  2. God didn’t reject his people, which he foreknew. Or don’t you get it what the Scripture says about Elijah? How he pleads with God against Israel:
  3. “boss, they have killed your prophets, they have broken down your altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life.”
  4. But how does God answer him? “I have reserved for myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to Baal.”
  5. Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of God's show love.
  6. And if by God's show love, then it is no longer of works; otherwise God's show love is no longer God's show love. But if it is of works, it is no longer God's show love; otherwise work is no longer work.
  7. What then? That which Israel seeks for, that he didn’t obtain, but the chosen ones obtained it, and the rest were hardened.
  8. According as it is written, “God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that they should not check it out, and ears that they should not hear, to this hella day.”
  9. David says, “Let their table be made a snare, and a trap, a stumbling block, and a retribution to them.
 10. Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not check it out. Bow down their back always.”
 11. I ask then, did they stumble that they might fall? May it never be! But by their fall getting saved has come through to the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy.
 12. now if their fall is the riches of the world, and their loss the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fullness?
 13. For I spill the tea to you who are Gentiles. Since then as I am an Jesus' main squad to Gentiles, I glorify my ministry;
 14. if by any means I may provoke to jealousy those who are my flesh, and may rescue some of them.
 15. For if the rejection of them is the reconciling of the world, what would their acceptance be, but life from the dead?
 16. If the first fruit is set apart, so is the lump. If the root is set apart, so are the branches.
 17. But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive, were grafted in among them, and became partaker with them of the root and of the richness of the olive tree;
 18. don’t boast over the branches. But if you boast, it is not you who support the root, but the root supports you.
 19. You will say then, “Branches were broken off, that I might be grafted in.”
 20. True; by their unbelief they were broken off, and you stand by your trusting the process. Don’t be conceited, but fear;
 21. for if God didn’t spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you.
 22. check it out then the goodness and severity of God. Toward those who fell, severity; but toward you, goodness, if you continue in his goodness; otherwise you also will be cut off.
 23. They also, if they don’t continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.
 24. For if you were cut out of that which is by nature a wild olive tree, and were grafted contrary to nature into a fire olive tree, how much more will these, which are the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree?
 25. For I don’t desire you to be ignorant, brothers, of this mystery, so that you won’t be smart in your own conceits, that a partial hardening has happened to Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come through in,
 26. and so all Israel will be saved. Even as it is written, “there will come through out of Zion the Deliverer, and he will turn away ungodliness from Jacob.
 27. This is my God's promise to them, when I will grab away their sins.”
 28. Concerning the fire News, they are enemies for your sake. But concerning the election, they are beloved for the fathers’ sake.
 29. For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.
 30. For as you in time past were disobedient to God, but now have obtained mercy by their disobedience,
 31. even so these also have now been disobedient, that by the mercy shown to you they may also obtain mercy.
 32. For God has shut up all to disobedience, that he might have mercy on all.
 33. Oh the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past tracing out!
 34. “For who has known the mind of the boss? Or who has been his counselor?”
 35. “Or who has first given to him, and it will be repaid to him again?”
 36. For of him, and through him, and to him, are all things. To him be the glory for ever! facts.

# Romans Chapter 12

  1. so basically I urge you, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living giving it up, set apart, acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service.
  2. Don’t be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what is the fire, well-pleasing, and perfect will of God.
  3. For I say, through the God's show love that was given me, to every man who is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but to think reasonably, as God has apportioned to each person a measure of trusting the process.
  4. For even as we have a lot members in one body, and all the members don’t have the same function,
  5. so we, who are a lot, are one body in anointed one, and individually members one of another.
  6. Having gifts differing according to the God's show love that was given to us, if prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of our trusting the process;
  7. or service, let us hook it up ourselves to service; or he who teaches, to his teaching;
  8. or he who exhorts, to his exhorting: he who gives, let him do it with liberality; he who rules, with diligence; he who shows mercy, with cheerfulness.
  9. Let show love be without hypocrisy. Abhor that which is evil. Cling to that which is fire.
 10. In show love of the brothers be tenderly affectionate one to another; in honor preferring one another;
 11. not lagging in diligence; fervent in spirit; serving the boss;
 12. rejoicing in hope; enduring in troubles; continuing steadfastly in talking to God;
 13. contributing to the needs of the saints; given to hospitality.
 14. Bless those who persecute you; bless, and don’t curse.
 15. be hyped with those who be hyped. Weep with those who weep.
 16. Be of the same mind one toward another. Don’t set your mind on high things, but associate with the humble. Don’t be smart in your own conceits.
 17. Repay no one evil for evil. Respect what is honorable in the sight of all men.
 18. If it is possible, as much as it is up to you, be at peace with all men.
 19. Don’t seek revenge yourselves, beloved, but hook it up place to God’s wrath. For it is written, “Vengeance belongs to me; I will repay, says the boss.”
 20. so basically “If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, hook it up him a drink; for in doing so, you will heap coals of fire on his head.”
 21. Don’t be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with fire.

# Romans Chapter 13

  1. Let every soul be in subjection to the higher authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those who exist are ordained by God.
  2. so basically he who resists the authority, withstands the ordinance of God; and those who withstand will receive to themselves judgment.
  3. For rulers are not a terror to the fire work, but to the evil. Do you desire to have no fear of the authority? Do that which is fire, and you will have praise from the same,
  4. for he is a helper of God to you for fire. But if you do that which is evil, be scared, for he doesn’t bear the sword in vain; for he is a helper of God, an avenger for wrath to him who does evil.
  5. so basically you need to be in subjection, not only cuz of the wrath, but also for conscience’ sake.
  6. For this reason you also pay taxes, for they are servants of God’s service, attending continually on this hella thing.
  7. hook it up so basically to everyone what you owe: taxes to whom taxes are due; customs to whom customs; respect to whom respect; honor to whom honor.
  8. Owe no one anything, except to show love one another; for he who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law.
  9. For the commandments, “You shall not commit adultery,” “You shall not murder,” “You shall not steal,” “You shall not hook it up false testimony,” “You shall not covet,” and whatever other commandments there are, are all summed up in this saying, namely, “You shall show love your neighbor as yourself.”
 10. show love doesn’t harm a neighbor. show love so basically is the fulfillment of the law.
 11. Do this, knowing the time, that it is already time for you to awaken out of sleep, for getting saved is now nearer to us than when we first believed.
 12. The night is far gone, and the day is near. Let’s so basically throw off the works of darkness, and let’s put on the armor of light.
 13. Let us walk properly, as in the day; not in reveling and drunkenness, not in sexual promiscuity and lustful acts, and not in strife and jealousy.
 14. But put on the boss Jesus anointed one, and create no provision for the flesh, for its lusts.

# Romans Chapter 14

  1. now accept one who is not it in trusting the process, but not for disputes over opinions.
  2. One man has trusting the process to eat all things, but he who is not it eats only vegetables.
  3. Don’t let him who eats despise him who doesn’t eat. Don’t let him who doesn’t eat judge him who eats, for God has accepted him.
  4. Who are you who judge another’s helper? To his own boss he stands or falls. Yes, he will be made to stand, for God has power to create him stand.
  5. One man esteems one day as more important. Another esteems every day alike. Let each man be fully assured in his own mind.
  6. He who observes the day, observes it to the boss; and he who does not observe the day, to the boss he does not observe it. He who eats, eats to the boss, for he gives God thanks. He who doesn’t eat, to the boss he doesn’t eat, and gives God thanks.
  7. For none of us lives to himself, and none dies to himself.
  8. For if we live, we live to the boss. Or if we die, we die to the boss. If so basically we live or die, we are the boss’s.
  9. For to this end anointed one died, rose, and lived again, that he might be boss of both the dead and the living.
 10. But you, why do you judge your brother? Or you again, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of anointed one.
 11. For it is written, “‘As I live,’ says the boss, ‘to me every knee will bow. Every tongue will confess to God.’”
 12. So then each one of us will hook it up account of himself to God.
 13. so basically let’s not judge one another any more, but judge this rather, that no man put a stumbling block in his brother’s way, or an occasion for falling.
 14. I get it, and am persuaded in the boss Jesus, that nothing is unclean of itself; except that to him who considers anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean.
 15. Yet if cuz of food your brother is grieved, you walk no longer in show love. Don’t tear down with your food him for whom anointed one died.
 16. then don’t let your fire be slandered,
 17. for the God's squad of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness, peace, and joy in the set apart Spirit.
 18. For he who serves anointed one in these things is acceptable to God and approved by men.
 19. So then, let us roll with after things which create for peace, and things by which we may put together one another up.
 20. Don’t overthrow God’s work for food’s sake. All things facts are clean, but like it is evil for that man who creates a stumbling block by eating.
 21. It is fire to not eat meat, drink wine, nor do anything by which your brother stumbles, is offended, or is made not it.
 22. Do you have trusting the process? Have it to yourself before God. vibing is he who doesn’t judge himself in that which he approves.
 23. But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, cuz it isn’t of trusting the process; and whatever is not of trusting the process is messing up. (14:24) now to him who is able to establish you according to my fire News and the preaching of Jesus anointed one, according to the revelation of the mystery which has been kept secret through long ages, (14:25) but now is revealed, and by the Scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God, is made known for obedience of trusting the process to all the nations; (14:26) to the only smart God, through Jesus anointed one, to whom be the glory forever! facts.

# Romans Chapter 15

  1. now we who are built different ought to bear the weaknesses of the not it, and not to please ourselves.
  2. Let each one of us please his neighbor for that which is fire, to be building him up.
  3. For even anointed one didn’t please himself. But, as it is written, “The reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me.”
  4. For whatever things were written before were written for our learning, that through patience and through encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.
  5. now the God of patience and of encouragement grant you to be of the same mind one with another according to anointed one Jesus,
  6. that with one accord you may with one mouth glorify the God and Father of our boss Jesus anointed one.
  7. so basically accept one another, even as anointed one also accepted you, to the glory of God.
  8. now I say that anointed one has been made a helper of the circumcision for the truth of God, that he might confirm the promises given to the fathers,
  9. and that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. As it is written, “so basically will I hook it up praise to you among the Gentiles, and sing to your name.”
 10. Again he says, “be hyped, you Gentiles, with his people.”
 11. Again, “Praise the boss, all you Gentiles! Let all the peoples praise him.”
 12. Again, Isaiah says, “there will be the root of Jesse, he who arises to rule over the Gentiles; in him the Gentiles will hope.”
 13. now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope, in the power of the set apart Spirit.
 14. I myself am also persuaded about you, my brothers, that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish others.
 15. But I write the more boldly to you in part, as reminding you, cuz of the God's show love that was given to me by God,
 16. that I should be a helper of anointed one Jesus to the Gentiles, serving as a priest the fire News of God, that the giving to God up of the Gentiles might be made acceptable, sanctified by the set apart Spirit.
 17. I have so basically my boasting in anointed one Jesus in things pertaining to God.
 18. For I will not dare to spill the tea of any things except those which anointed one worked through me, for the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and deed,
 19. in the power of signs and wonders, in the power of God’s Spirit; so that from Jerusalem, and around as far as to Illyricum, I have fully preached the fire News of anointed one;
 20. yes, making it my aim to preach the fire News, not where anointed one was already named, that I might not put together on another’s foundation.
 21. But, as it is written, “They will check it out, to whom no news of him came. They who haven’t heard will understand.”
 22. so basically also I was hindered these a lot times from coming to you,
 23. but now, no longer having any place in these regions, and having these a lot years a longing to come through to you,
 24. whenever I journey to Spain, I will come through to you. For I hope to check it out you on my journey, and to be helped on my way there by you, if first I may enjoy your company for a while.
 25. But now, I say, I am going to Jerusalem, serving the saints.
 26. For it has been the fire pleasure of Macedonia and Achaia to create a certain contribution for the broke among the saints who are at Jerusalem.
 27. Yes, it has been their fire pleasure, and they are their debtors. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, they owe it to them also to help out them in fleshly things.
 28. When so basically I have accomplished this, and have sealed to them this fruit, I will slide on by way of you to Spain.
 29. I get it that, when I come through to you, I will come through in the fullness of the blessing of the fire News of anointed one.
 30. now I beg you, brothers, by our boss Jesus anointed one, and by the show love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me in your prayers to God for me,
 31. that I may be delivered from those who are disobedient in Judea, and that my service which I have for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints;
 32. that I may come through to you in joy through the will of God, and together with you, find rest.
 33. now the God of peace be with you all. facts.

# Romans Chapter 16

  1. I commend to you Phoebe, our sister, who is a helper of the assembly that is at Cenchreae,
  2. that you receive her in the boss, in a way worthy of the saints, and that you assist her in whatever matter she may need from you, for she herself also has been a helper of a lot, and of my own self.
  3. Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in anointed one Jesus,
  4. who for my life, laid down their own necks; to whom not only I hook it up thanks, but also all the assemblies of the Gentiles.
  5. Greet the assembly that is in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the first fruits of Achaia to anointed one.
  6. Greet Mary, who labored much for us.
  7. Greet Andronicus and Junia, my relatives and my fellow prisoners, who are notable among the apostles, who also were in anointed one before me.
  8. Greet Amplias, my beloved in the boss.
  9. Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in anointed one, and Stachys, my beloved.
 10. Greet Apelles, the approved in anointed one. Greet those who are of the household of Aristobulus.
 11. Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet them of the household of Narcissus, who are in the boss.
 12. Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the boss. Greet Persis, the beloved, who labored much in the boss.
 13. Greet Rufus, the chosen in the boss, and his mother and mine.
 14. Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers who are with them.
 15. Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them.
 16. Greet one another with a set apart kiss. The assemblies of anointed one greet you.
 17. now I beg you, brothers, look out for those who are causing the divisions and occasions of stumbling, contrary to the doctrine which you learned, and turn away from them.
 18. For those who are such don’t help out our boss, Jesus anointed one, but their own belly; and by their smooth and flattering speech, they deceive the hearts of the innocent.
 19. For your obedience has become known to all. I be hyped so basically over you. But I desire to have you smart in that which is fire, but innocent in that which is evil.
 20. And the God of peace will quickly crush Satan under your feet. The God's show love of our boss Jesus anointed one be with you.
 21. Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you, as do Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, my relatives.
 22. I, Tertius, who write the letter, greet you in the boss.
 23. Gaius, my host and host of the whole assembly, greets you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets you, as does Quartus, the brother.
 24. The God's show love of our boss Jesus anointed one be with you all! facts.
 25. - - -
 26. - - -
 27. - - -


TITUS
-----

# Titus Chapter 1

  1. Paul, a helper of God, and an Jesus' main squad of Jesus anointed one, according to the trusting the process of God’s chosen ones, and the knowledge of the truth which is according to godliness,
  2. in hope of living forever, which God, who can’t lie, promised before time began;
  3. but in his own time revealed his word in the message with which I was entrusted according to the commandment of God our Savior;
  4. to Titus, my true child according to a common trusting the process: God's show love, mercy, and peace from God the Father and the boss Jesus anointed one our Savior.
  5. I left you in Crete for this reason, that you would set in order the things that were lacking, and appoint elders in every city, as I directed you;
  6. if anyone is blameless, the husband of one wife, having children who believe, who are not accused of loose or unruly behavior.
  7. For the overseer must be blameless, as God’s steward; not self-pleasing, not easily angered, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for dishonest gain;
  8. but given to hospitality, a lover of fire, sober minded, fair, set apart, self-controlled;
  9. holding to the faithful word which is according to the teaching, that he may be able to exhort in the sound doctrine, and to convict those who contradict him.
 10. For there are also a lot unruly men, vain talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision,
 11. whose mouths must be stopped; men who overthrow whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for dishonest gain’s sake.
 12. One of them, a God's messenger of their own, said, “Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, and idle gluttons.”
 13. This testimony is true. For this cause, reprove them sharply, that they may be sound in the trusting the process,
 14. not paying attention to Jewish fables and commandments of men who turn away from the truth.
 15. To the pure, all things are pure; but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their mind and their conscience are defiled.
 16. They profess that they get it God, but by their works they deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and unfit for any fire work.

# Titus Chapter 2

  1. But say the things which fit sound doctrine,
  2. that older men should be temperate, sensible, sober minded, sound in trusting the process, in show love, and in patience:
  3. and that older women likewise be reverent in behavior, not slanderers nor enslaved to much wine, teachers of that which is fire;
  4. that they may train the young women to show love their husbands, to show love their children,
  5. to be sober minded, chaste, workers at home, kind, being in subjection to their own husbands, that God’s word may not be blasphemed.
  6. Likewise, exhort the younger men to be sober minded;
  7. in all things showing yourself an example of fire works; in your teaching showing integrity, seriousness, incorruptibility,
  8. and soundness of speech that can’t be condemned; that he who opposes you may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say about us.
  9. Exhort servants to be in subjection to their own masters, and to be well-pleasing in all things; not contradicting;
 10. not stealing, but showing all fire fidelity; that they may adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior, in all things.
 11. For the God's show love of God has appeared, bringing getting saved to all men,
 12. instructing us to the intent that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we would live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world;
 13. looking for the blessed up hope and appearing of the glory of our major God and Savior, Jesus anointed one;
 14. who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for fire works.
 15. Say these things and exhort and reprove with all authority. Let no man despise you.

# Titus Chapter 3

  1. Remind them to be in subjection to rulers and to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every fire work,
  2. to spill the tea evil of no one, not to be contentious, to be gentle, showing all humility toward all men.
  3. For we were also once dumb, disobedient, deceived, serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another.
  4. But when the kindness of God our Savior and his show love toward mankind appeared,
  5. not by works of righteousness, which we did ourselves, but according to his mercy, he saved us, through the washing of regeneration and renewing by the set apart Spirit,
  6. whom he poured out on us richly, through Jesus anointed one our Savior;
  7. that, being justified by his God's show love, we might be made heirs according to the hope of living forever.
  8. This saying is faithful, and concerning these things I desire that you affirm confidently, so that those who have believed God may be careful to maintain fire works. These things are fire and profitable to men;
  9. but shun dumb questionings, genealogies, strife, and disputes about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain.
 10. Avoid a factious man after a first and second warning;
 11. knowing that such a one is perverted, and sins, being self-condemned.
 12. When I send Artemas to you, or Tychicus, be diligent to come through to me to Nicopolis, for I have determined to winter there.
 13. Send Zenas, the lawyer, and Apollos on their journey speedily, that nothing may be lacking for them.
 14. Let our people also pick up to maintain fire works for necessary uses, that they may not be unfruitful.
 15. All who are with me greet you. Greet those who show love us in trusting the process. God's show love be with you all. facts.


================================================================================
GENZ BIBLE TRANSLATION COMPLETE
================================================================================
Translation completed using contemporary GenZ slang
while maintaining biblical accuracy and theological integrity.
================================================================================
