# John Chapter 11

    1. now a certain man was sick, Lazarus from Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister, Martha.
    2. It was that Mary who had anointed Boss with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose fam bro, Lazarus, was sick.
    3. The sisters so basically sent to him, saying, “boss, check this out, he for whom ya have major affection is sick.”
    4. But when Jesus heard it, he said, “This sickness isn't to death, but for the glory of God, that God’s Son may be glorified by it.”
    5. now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
    6. When so basically he heard that he was sick, he stayed two days in the place where he was.
    7. then after this he said to the disciples, “Let’s slide into Judea again.”
    8. The disciples told him, “teacher, the Jews were just trying to stone ya, and are ya going there again?”
    9. Jesus answered, “Aren’t there twelve hours of daylight? If a man walks in the day, he doesn’t stumble, cuz he sees the light of this world.
  10. But if a man walks in the night, he stumbles, cuz the light isn’t in him.”
  11. He said these things, and after that, he said to them, “Our friend, Lazarus, has fallen asleep, but I am going so that I may awake him out of sleep.”
  12. The disciples so basically said, “boss, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover.”
  13. now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he spoke of taking rest in sleep.
  14. So Jesus said to them plainly then, “Lazarus is dead.
  15. I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that ya may believe. Nevertheless, let’s slide to him.”
  16. Thomas so basically, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples, “Let’s slide also, that we may die with him.”
  17. So when Jesus came, he found that he had been in the tomb four days already.
  18. now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia away.
  19. a lot of the Jews had joined the women around Martha and Mary, to console them concerning their fam bro.
  20. then when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary stayed in the house.
  21. so basically Martha said to Jesus, “boss, if ya would have been here, my fam bro wouldn’t have died.
  22. Even now I get it that, whatever ya ask of God, God will hook it up ya.”
  23. Jesus said to her, “Your fam bro will rise again.”
  24. Martha said to him, “I get it that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day.”
  25. Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will still live, even if he dies.
  26. Whoever lives and believes in me will never die. Do ya believe this?”
  27. She said to him, “Yes, boss. I have come through through to believe that ya are the the huge yeeted, God’s Son, he who comes into the world.”
  28. When she had said this, she went away, and called Mary, her sister, secretly, saying, “The Teacher is here, and is calling ya.”
  29. When she heard this, she arose quickly, and went to him.
  30. now Jesus had not yet come through through into the village, but was in the place where Martha met him.
  31. then the Jews who were with her in the house, and were consoling her, when they saw Mary, that she rose up quickly and went out, followed her, saying, “She is going to the tomb to weep there.”
  32. so basically when Mary came to where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying to him, “boss, if ya would have been here, my fam bro wouldn’t have died.”
  33. When Jesus so basically saw her weeping, and the Jews weeping who came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled,
  34. and said, “Where have ya laid him?” They told him, “boss, come through through and check it out.”
  35. Jesus wept.
  36. The Jews so basically said, “check it out how much affection he had for him!”
  37. Some of them said, “Couldn’t this man, who opened the eyes of him who was blind, have also kept this man from dying?”
  38. Jesus so basically, again groaning in himself, came to the tomb. now it was a cave, and a stone lay against it.
  39. Jesus said, “grab away the stone.” Martha, the sister of him who was dead, said to him, “boss, by this time there is a stench, for he has been dead four days.”
  40. Jesus said to her, “Didn’t I tell ya that if ya believed, ya would check it out God’s glory?”
  41. So they took away the stone from the place where the dead man was lying. Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, “Father, I thank ya that ya listened to me.
  42. I get it that ya always listen up up to me, but cuz of the multitude that stands around I said this, that they may believe that ya sent me.”
  43. When he had said this, he cried with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come through through out!”
  44. He who was dead came out, bound hand and foot with wrappings, and his face was wrapped around with a cloth. Jesus said to them, “Free him, and let him slide.”
  45. so basically a lot of the Jews, who came to Mary and saw what Jesus did, believed in him.
  46. But some of them went away to the Pharisees, and told them the things which Jesus had done.
  47. The chief priests so basically and the Pharisees gathered a council, and said, “What are we doing? For this man does a lot signs.
  48. If we leave him alone like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come through through and grab away both our place and our nation.”
  49. But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, being high priest that year, said to them, “ya get it nothing at all,
  50. nor do ya consider that it is advantageous for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation not perish.”
  51. now he didn’t say this of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation,
  52. and not for the nation only, but that he might also gather together into one the children of God who are scattered abroad.
  53. So from that day forward they took counsel that they might put him to death.
  54. Jesus so basically walked no more openly among the Jews, but departed from there into the country near the wilderness, to a city called Ephraim. He stayed there with his disciples.
  55. now the Passover of the Jews was at hand. a lot went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover, to purify themselves.
  56. then they sought for Jesus and spoke one with another, as they stood in the God's house, “What do ya think—that he isn’t coming to the feast at all?”
  57. now the chief priests and the Pharisees had commanded that if anyone knew where he was, he should report it, that they might seize him.
