# John Chapter 18

    1. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went out with his disciples over the brook Kidron, where there was a garden, into which he and his disciples entered.
    2. now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus a lot met there with his disciples.
    3. Judas then, having taken a detachment of soldiers and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, came there with lanterns, torches, and weapons.
    4. Jesus so basically, knowing all the things that were happening to him, went forth, and said to them, “Who are ya looking for?”
    5. They answered him, “Jesus of Nazareth.” Jesus said to them, “I am he.” Judas also, who betrayed him, was standing with them.
    6. When so basically he said to them, “I am he,” they went backward, and fell to the ground.
    7. Again so basically he asked them, “Who are ya looking for?” They said, “Jesus of Nazareth.”
    8. Jesus answered, “I told ya that I am he. If so basically ya seek me, let these slide their way,”
    9. that the word might be fulfilled which he spoke, “Of those whom ya have given me, I have lost none.”
  10. Simon Peter so basically, having a sword, drew it, and struck the high priest’s helper, and cut off his right ear. The helper’s name was Malchus.
  11. Jesus so basically said to Peter, “Put the sword into its sheath. The cup which the Father has given me, shall I not surely drink it?”
  12. So the detachment, the commanding officer, and the officers of the Jews, seized Jesus and bound him,
  13. and led him to Annas first, for he was father-in-law to Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
  14. now it was Caiaphas who advised the Jews that it was expedient that one man should perish for the people.
  15. Simon Peter followed Jesus, as did another Jesus' crew. now that Jesus' crew was known to the high priest, and entered in with Jesus into the court of the high priest;
  16. but Peter was standing at the door outside. So the other Jesus' crew, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to her who kept the door, and brought in Peter.
  17. then the maid who kept the door said to Peter, “Are ya also one of this man’s disciples?” He said, “I am not.”
  18. now the servants and the officers were standing there, having made a fire of coals, for it was cold. They were warming themselves. Peter was with them, standing and warming himself.
  19. The high priest so basically asked Jesus about his disciples, and about his teaching.
  20. Jesus answered him, “I spoke openly to the world. I always taught in synagogues, and in the God's house, where the Jews always meet. I said nothing in secret.
  21. Why do ya ask me? Ask those who have heard me what I said to them. check this out, these get it the things which I said.”
  22. When he had said this, one of the officers standing by slapped Jesus with his hand, saying, “Do ya answer the high priest like that?”
  23. Jesus answered him, “If I have spoken evil, testify of the evil; but if well, why do ya beat me?”
  24. Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest.
  25. now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. They said so basically to him, “ya aren’t also one of his disciples, are ya?” He denied it, and said, “I am not.”
  26. One of the servants of the high priest, being a relative of him whose ear Peter had cut off, said, “Didn’t I check it out ya in the garden with him?”
  27. Peter so basically denied it again, and immediately the rooster crowed.
  28. They led Jesus so basically from Caiaphas into the Praetorium. It was early, and they themselves didn’t enter into the Praetorium, that they might not be defiled, but might eat the Passover.
  29. Pilate so basically went out to them, and said, “What accusation do ya bring against this man?”
  30. They answered him, “If this man weren’t an evildoer, we wouldn’t have delivered him up to ya.”
  31. Pilate so basically said to them, “grab him yourselves, and judge him according to your law.” so basically the Jews said to him, “It isn't lawful for us to put anyone to death,”
  32. that the word of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spoke, signifying by what kind of death he should die.
  33. Pilate so basically entered again into the Praetorium, called Jesus, and said to him, “Are ya the ruler of the Jews?”
  34. Jesus answered him, “Do ya say this by yourself, or did others tell ya about me?”
  35. Pilate answered, “I’m not a Jew, am I? Your own nation and the chief priests delivered ya to me. What have ya done?”
  36. Jesus answered, “My God's squad isn't of this world. If my God's squad were of this world, then my servants would fight, that I wouldn’t be delivered to the Jews. But now my God's squad isn't from here.”
  37. Pilate so basically said to him, “Are ya a ruler then?” Jesus answered, “ya say that I am a ruler. For this reason I have been born, and for this reason I have come through through into the world, that I should testify to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.”
  38. Pilate said to him, “What is truth?” When he had said this, he went out again to the Jews, and said to them, “I find no basis for a charge against him.
  39. But ya have a custom, that I should release someone to ya at the Passover. so basically do ya want me to release to ya the ruler of the Jews?”
  40. then they all shouted again, saying, “Not this man, but Barabbas!” now Barabbas was a robber.
