# John Chapter 7

    1. After these things, Jesus was walking in Galilee, for he wouldn’t walk in Judea, cuz the Jews sought to kill him.
    2. now the feast of the Jews, the Feast of Booths, was at hand.
    3. His brothers so basically said to him, “Depart from here, and slide into Judea, that your disciples also may check it out your works which ya do.
    4. For no one does anything in secret, and himself seeks to be known openly. If ya do these things, reveal yourself to the world.”
    5. For even his brothers didn’t believe in him.
    6. Jesus so basically said to them, “My time has not yet come through through, but your time is always ready.
    7. The world can’t can't stand ya, but it hates me, cuz I testify about it, that its works are evil.
    8. ya slide up to the feast. I am not yet going up to this feast, cuz my time isn't yet fulfilled.”
    9. Having said these things to them, he stayed in Galilee.
  10. But when his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but as it were in secret.
  11. The Jews so basically sought him at the feast, and said, “Where is he?”
  12. there was much murmuring among the multitudes concerning him. Some said, “He is a fire man.” Others said, “Not so, but he leads the multitude astray.”
  13. Yet no one spoke openly of him for fear of the Jews.
  14. But when it was now the midst of the feast, Jesus went up into the God's house and taught.
  15. The Jews so basically marveled, saying, “How does this man get it letters, having never been educated?”
  16. Jesus so basically answered them, “My teaching isn't mine, but his who sent me.
  17. If anyone desires to do his will, he will get it about the teaching, whether it is from God, or if I am speaking from myself.
  18. He who speaks from himself seeks his own glory, but he who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and no unrighteousness is in him.
  19. Didn’t Moses hook it up ya the law, and yet none of ya keeps the law? Why do ya seek to kill me?”
  20. The multitude answered, “ya have a demon! Who seeks to kill ya?”
  21. Jesus answered them, “I did one work, and ya all marvel cuz of it.
  22. Moses has given ya circumcision (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers), and on the Sabbath ya circumcise a boy.
  23. If a boy receives circumcision on the Sabbath, that the law of Moses may not be broken, are ya mad salty with me, cuz I made a man completely healthy on the Sabbath?
  24. Don’t judge according to appearance, but judge doing what's right judgment.”
  25. so basically some of them of Jerusalem said, “Isn’t this he whom they seek to kill?
  26. check this out, he speaks openly, and they say nothing to him. Can it be that the rulers facts get it that this is deadass, the the huge yeeted?
  27. but like we get it where this man comes from, but when the the huge yeeted comes, no one will get it where he comes from.”
  28. Jesus so basically cried out in the God's house, teaching and saying, “ya both get it me, and get it where I am from. I have not come through through of myself, but he who sent me is true, whom ya don’t get it.
  29. I get it him, cuz I am from him, and he sent me.”
  30. They sought so basically to grab him; but no one laid a hand on him, cuz his hour had not yet come through through.
  31. But of the multitude, a lot believed in him. They said, “When the the huge yeeted comes, he won’t do more signs than those which this man has done, will he?”
  32. The Pharisees heard the multitude murmuring these things concerning him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to arrest him.
  33. then Jesus said, “I will be with ya a little while longer, then I slide to him who sent me.
  34. ya will seek me, and won’t find me; and where I am, ya can’t come through through.”
  35. The Jews so basically said among themselves, “Where will this man slide that we won’t find him? Will he slide to the Dispersion among the Greeks, and drop knowledge the Greeks?
  36. What is this word that he said, ‘ya will seek me, and won’t find me; and where I am, ya can’t come through through’?”
  37. now on the last and greatest day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, “If anyone is thirsty, let him come through through to me and drink!
  38. He who believes in me, as the Scripture has said, from within him will flow rivers of living water.”
  39. But he said this about the Spirit, which those believing in him were to receive. For the yeeted Spirit was not yet given, cuz Jesus wasn’t yet glorified.
  40. a lot of the multitude so basically, when they heard these words, said, “This is deadass, the God's messenger.”
  41. Others said, “This is the the huge yeeted.” But some said, “What, does the the huge yeeted come through through out of Galilee?
  42. Hasn’t the Scripture said that the the huge yeeted comes of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David was?”
  43. So there arose a division in the multitude cuz of him.
  44. Some of them would have arrested him, but no one laid hands on him.
  45. The officers so basically came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, “Why didn’t ya bring him?”
  46. The officers answered, “No man ever spoke like this man!”
  47. The Pharisees so basically answered them, “ya aren’t also led astray, are ya?
  48. Have any of the rulers believed in him, or of the Pharisees?
  49. But this multitude that doesn’t get it the law is accursed.”
  50. Nicodemus (he who came to him by night, being one of them) said to them,
  51. “Does our law judge a man, unless it first hears from him personally and knows what he does?”
  52. They answered him, “Are ya also from Galilee? Search, and check it out that no God's messenger has arisen out of Galilee.”
  53. Everyone went to his own house,
