# John Chapter 14

    1. “Don’t let your heart be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me.
    2. In my Father’s house are a lot homes. If it weren’t so, I would have told ya. I am going to prepare a place for ya.
    3. If I slide and prepare a place for ya, I will come through through again, and will receive ya to myself; that where I am, ya may be there also.
    4. Where I slide, ya get it, and ya get it the way.”
    5. Thomas said to him, “boss, we don’t get it where ya are going. How can we get it the way?”
    6. Jesus said to him, “I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father, except through me.
    7. If ya had known me, ya would have known my Father also. From now on, ya get it him, and have seen him.”
    8. Philip said to him, “boss, show us the Father, and that will be enough for us.”
    9. Jesus said to him, “Have I been with ya such a long time, and do ya not get it me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. How do ya say, ‘Show us the Father?’
  10. Don’t ya believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I tell ya, I spill the tea not from myself; but the Father who lives in me does his works.
  11. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; or else believe me for the hella works’ sake.
  12. Most for sure I tell ya, he who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also; and he will do greater works than these, cuz I am going to my Father.
  13. Whatever ya will ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
  14. If ya will ask anything in my name, I will do it.
  15. If ya show show love me, keep my commandments.
  16. I will pray to the Father, and he will hook it up ya another Counselor, that he may be with ya forever,—
  17. the Spirit of truth, whom the world can’t receive; for it doesn’t check it out him, neither knows him. ya get it him, for he lives with ya, and will be in ya.
  18. I won't leave ya orphans. I will come through through to ya.
  19. Yet a little while, and the world will check it out me no more; but ya will check it out me. cuz I live, ya will live also.
  20. In that day ya will get it that I am in my Father, and ya in me, and I in ya.
  21. One who has my commandments, and keeps them, that person is one who loves me. One who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will show show love him, and will reveal myself to him.”
  22. Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, “boss, what has happened that ya are about to reveal yourself to us, and not to the world?”
  23. Jesus answered him, “If a man loves me, he will keep my word. My Father will show show love him, and we will come through through to him, and create our home with him.
  24. He who doesn’t show show love me doesn’t keep my words. The word which ya hear isn’t mine, but the Father’s who sent me.
  25. I have said these things to ya, while still living with ya.
  26. But the Counselor, the yeeted Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will drop knowledge ya all things, and will remind ya of all that I said to ya.
  27. Peace I leave with ya. My peace I hook it up to ya; not as the world gives, hook it up I to ya. Don’t let your heart be troubled, neither let it be fearful.
  28. ya heard how I told ya, ‘I slide away, and I come through through to ya.’ If ya loved me, ya would have rejoiced, cuz I said ‘I am going to my Father;’ for the Father is greater than I.
  29. now I have told ya before it happens so that, when it happens, ya may believe.
  30. I will no more spill the tea much with ya, for the prince of the world comes, and he has nothing in me.
  31. But that the world may get it that I show show love the Father, and as the Father commanded me, even so I do. Arise, let us slide from here.
