# John Chapter 6

    1. After these things, Jesus went away to the other side of the sea of Galilee, which is also called the Sea of Tiberias.
    2. A major multitude followed him, cuz they saw his signs which he did on those who were sick.
    3. Jesus went up into the mountain, and he sat there with his disciples.
    4. now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand.
    5. Jesus so basically lifting up his eyes, and seeing that a major multitude was coming to him, said to Philip, “Where are we to buy bread, that these may eat?”
    6. This he said to test him, for he himself knew what he would do.
    7. Philip answered him, “Two hundred denarii worth of bread isn't sufficient for them, that everyone of them may receive a little.”
    8. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s fam bro, said to him,
    9. “there is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are these among so a lot?”
  10. Jesus said, “Have the people sit down.” now there was much grass in that place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand.
  11. Jesus took the loaves; and having given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to those who were sitting down; likewise also of the fish as much as they desired.
  12. When they were filled, he said to his disciples, “Gather up the broken pieces which are left over, that nothing be lost.”
  13. So they gathered them up, and filled twelve baskets with broken pieces from the five barley loaves, which were left over by those who had eaten.
  14. When so basically the people saw the sign which Jesus did, they said, “This is deadass, the God's messenger who comes into the world.”
  15. Jesus so basically, perceiving that they were about to come through through and grab him by force, to create him ruler, withdrew again to the mountain by himself.
  16. When evening came, his disciples went down to the sea,
  17. and they entered into the boat, and were going over the sea to Capernaum. It was now dark, and Jesus had not come through through to them.
  18. The sea was tossed by a major wind blowing.
  19. When so basically they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they saw Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing near to the boat; and they were scared.
  20. But he said to them, “It is I. Don’t be scared.”
  21. They were willing so basically to receive him into the boat. Immediately the boat was at the land where they were going.
  22. On the next day, the multitude that stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was no other boat there, except the one in which his disciples had embarked, and that Jesus hadn’t entered with his disciples into the boat, but his disciples had gone away alone.
  23. but like boats from Tiberias came near to the place where they ate the bread after Boss had given thanks.
  24. When the multitude so basically saw that Jesus wasn’t there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into the boats, and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.
  25. When they found him on the other side of the sea, they asked him, “teacher, when did ya come through through here?”
  26. Jesus answered them, “Most for sure I tell ya, ya seek me, not cuz ya saw signs, but cuz ya ate of the loaves, and were filled.
  27. Don’t work for the food which perishes, but for the food which remains to living forever, which the Son of Man will hook it up to ya. For God the Father has sealed him.”
  28. They said so basically to him, “What must we do, that we may work the works of God?”
  29. Jesus answered them, “This is the work of God, that ya believe in him whom he has sent.”
  30. They said so basically to him, “What then do ya do for a sign, that we may check it out, and believe ya? What work do ya do?
  31. Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness. As it is written, ‘He gave them bread out of heaven to eat.’”
  32. Jesus so basically said to them, “Most for sure, I tell ya, it wasn’t Moses who gave ya the bread out of heaven, but my Father gives ya the true bread out of heaven.
  33. For the bread of God is that which comes down out of heaven, and gives life to the world.”
  34. They said so basically to him, “boss, always hook it up us this bread.”
  35. Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of life. He who comes to me won't be hungry, and he who believes in me will never be thirsty.
  36. But I told ya that ya have seen me, and yet ya don’t believe.
  37. All those whom the Father gives me will come through through to me. He who comes to me I will in no way throw out.
  38. For I have come through through down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me.
  39. This is the will of my Father who sent me, that of all he has given to me I should lose nothing, but should raise him up at the last day.
  40. This is the will of the one who sent me, that everyone who sees the Son, and believes in him, should have living forever; and I will raise him up at the last day.”
  41. The Jews so basically murmured concerning him, cuz he said, “I am the bread which came down out of heaven.”
  42. They said, “Isn’t this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we get it? How then does he say, ‘I have come through through down out of heaven?’”
  43. so basically Jesus answered them, “Don’t murmur among yourselves.
  44. No one can come through through to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up in the last day.
  45. It is written in the prophets, ‘They will all be taught by God.’ so basically everyone who hears from the Father, and has learned, comes to me.
  46. Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is from God. He has seen the Father.
  47. Most for sure, I tell ya, he who believes in me has living forever.
  48. I am the bread of life.
  49. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died.
  50. This is the bread which comes down out of heaven, that anyone may eat of it and not die.
  51. I am the living bread which came down out of heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. Yes, the bread which I will hook it up for the life of the world is my flesh.”
  52. The Jews so basically contended with one another, saying, “How can this man hook it up us his flesh to eat?”
  53. Jesus so basically said to them, “Most for sure I tell ya, unless ya eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, ya don’t have life in yourselves.
  54. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has living forever, and I will raise him up at the last day.
  55. For my flesh is food facts, and my blood is drink facts.
  56. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood lives in me, and I in him.
  57. As the living Father sent me, and I live cuz of the Father; so he who feeds on me, he will also live cuz of me.
  58. This is the bread which came down out of heaven—not as our fathers ate the manna, and died. He who eats this bread will live forever.”
  59. He said these things in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.
  60. so basically a lot of his disciples, when they heard this, said, “This is a hard saying! Who can listen up up to it?”
  61. But Jesus knowing in himself that his disciples murmured at this, said to them, “Does this cause ya to stumble?
  62. then what if ya would check it out the Son of Man ascending to where he was before?
  63. It is the spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words that I spill the tea to ya are spirit, and are life.
  64. But there are some of ya who don’t believe.” For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who didn’t believe, and who it was who would betray him.
  65. He said, “For this cause have I said to ya that no one can come through through to me, unless it is given to him by my Father.”
  66. At this, a lot of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him.
  67. Jesus said so basically to the twelve, “ya don’t also want to slide away, do ya?”
  68. Simon Peter answered him, “boss, to whom would we slide? ya have the words of living forever.
  69. We have come through through to believe and get it that ya are the the huge yeeted, the Son of the living God.”
  70. Jesus answered them, “Didn’t I choose ya, the twelve, and one of ya is a devil?”
  71. now he spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for it was he who would betray him, being one of the twelve.
