# John Chapter 13

    1. now before the feast of the Passover, Jesus, knowing that his time had come through through that he would depart from this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end.
    2. During supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, to betray him,
    3. Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he came forth from God, and was going to God,
    4. arose from supper, and laid aside his outer garments. He took a towel, and wrapped a towel around his waist.
    5. then he poured water into the basin, and began to wash the disciples’ feet, and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him.
    6. then he came to Simon Peter. He said to him, “boss, do ya wash my feet?”
    7. Jesus answered him, “ya don’t get it what I am doing now, but ya will understand later.”
    8. Peter said to him, “ya will never wash my feet!” Jesus answered him, “If I don’t wash ya, ya have no part with me.”
    9. Simon Peter said to him, “boss, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head!”
  10. Jesus said to him, “Someone who has bathed only needs to have his feet washed, but is completely clean. ya are clean, but not all of ya.”
  11. For he knew him who would betray him, so basically he said, “ya aren't all clean.”
  12. So when he had washed their feet, put his outer garment back on, and sat down again, he said to them, “Do ya get it what I have done to ya?
  13. ya call me, ‘Teacher’ and ‘boss.’ ya say so correctly, for so I am.
  14. If I then, Boss and the Teacher, have washed your feet, ya also ought to wash one another’s feet.
  15. For I have given ya an example, that ya also should do as I have done to ya.
  16. Most for sure I tell ya, a helper isn't greater than his boss, neither one who is sent greater than he who sent him.
  17. If ya get it these things, blessed up up are ya if ya do them.
  18. I don’t spill the tea concerning all of ya. I get it whom I have chosen. But that the Scripture may be fulfilled, ‘He who eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me.’
  19. From now on, I tell ya before it happens, that when it happens, ya may believe that I am he.
  20. Most for sure I tell ya, he who receives whomever I send, receives me; and he who receives me, receives him who sent me.”
  21. When Jesus had said this, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, “Most for sure I tell ya that one of ya will betray me.”
  22. The disciples looked at one another, perplexed about whom he spoke.
  23. One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was at the table, leaning against Jesus’ breast.
  24. Simon Peter so basically beckoned to him, and said to him, “Tell us who it is of whom he speaks.”
  25. He, leaning back, as he was, on Jesus’ breast, asked him, “boss, who is it?”
  26. Jesus so basically answered, “It is he to whom I will hook it up this piece of bread when I have dipped it.” So when he had dipped the piece of bread, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot.
  27. After the piece of bread, then Satan entered into him. then Jesus said to him, “What ya do, do quickly.”
  28. now no man at the table knew why he said this to him.
  29. For some thought, cuz Judas had the money box, that Jesus said to him, “Buy what things we need for the feast,” or that he should hook it up something to the broke.
  30. so basically, having received that morsel, he went out immediately. It was night.
  31. When he had gone out, Jesus said, “now the Son of Man has been glorified, and God has been glorified in him.
  32. If God has been glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and he will glorify him immediately.
  33. Little children, I will be with ya a little while longer. ya will seek me, and as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I am going, ya can’t come through through,’ so now I tell ya.
  34. A new commandment I hook it up to ya, that ya show show love one another, just like I have loved ya; that ya also show show love one another.
  35. By this everyone will get it that ya are my disciples, if ya have show show love for one another.”
  36. Simon Peter said to him, “boss, where are ya going?” Jesus answered, “Where I am going, ya can’t roll with now, but ya will roll with afterwards.”
  37. Peter said to him, “boss, why can’t I roll with ya now? I will lay down my life for ya.”
  38. Jesus answered him, “Will ya lay down your life for me? Most for sure I tell ya, the rooster won’t crow until ya have denied me three times.
