# John Chapter 16

    1. “These things have I spoken to ya, so that ya wouldn’t be caused to stumble.
    2. They will put ya out of the synagogues. Yes, the time comes that whoever kills ya will think that he offers service to God.
    3. They will do these things cuz they have not known the Father, nor me.
    4. But I have told ya these things, so that when the time comes, ya may remember that I told ya about them. I didn’t tell ya these things from the beginning, cuz I was with ya.
    5. But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of ya asks me, ‘Where are ya going?’
    6. But cuz I have told ya these things, feeling down has filled your heart.
    7. Nevertheless I tell ya the truth: It is to your advantage that I slide away, for if I don’t slide away, the Counselor won’t come through through to ya. But if I slide, I will send him to ya.
    8. When he has come through through, he will convict the world about messing up, about righteousness, and about judgment;
    9. about messing up, cuz they don’t believe in me;
  10. about righteousness, cuz I am going to my Father, and ya won’t check it out me any more;
  11. about judgment, cuz the prince of this world has been judged.
  12. “I have yet a lot things to tell ya, but ya can’t bear them now.
  13. but like when he, the Spirit of truth, has come through through, he will guide ya into all truth, for he won't spill the tea from himself; but whatever he hears, he will spill the tea. He will declare to ya things that are coming.
  14. He will glorify me, for he will grab from what is mine, and will declare it to ya.
  15. All things whatever the Father has are mine; so basically I said that he takes of mine, and will declare it to ya.
  16. A little while, and ya won't check it out me. Again a little while, and ya will check it out me.”
  17. Some of his disciples so basically said to one another, “What is this that he says to us, ‘A little while, and ya won’t check it out me, and again a little while, and ya will check it out me;’ and, ‘cuz I slide to the Father?’”
  18. They said so basically, “What is this that he says, ‘A little while?’ We don’t get it what he is saying.”
  19. so basically Jesus perceived that they wanted to ask him, and he said to them, “Do ya inquire among yourselves concerning this, that I said, ‘A little while, and ya won’t check it out me, and again a little while, and ya will check it out me?’
  20. Most for sure I tell ya, that ya will weep and lament, but the world will be hyped. ya will be sorrowful, but your feeling down will be turned into joy.
  21. A woman, when she gives birth, has feeling down, cuz her time has come through through. But when she has delivered the child, she doesn’t remember the anguish any more, for the joy that a human being is born into the world.
  22. so basically ya now have feeling down, but I will check it out ya again, and your heart will be hyped, and no one will grab your joy away from ya.
  23. “In that day ya will ask me no questions. Most for sure I tell ya, whatever ya may ask of the Father in my name, he will hook it up it to ya.
  24. Until now, ya have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and ya will receive, that your joy may be made full.
  25. I have spoken these things to ya in figures of speech. But the time is coming when I will no more spill the tea to ya in figures of speech, but will tell ya plainly about the Father.
  26. In that day ya will ask in my name; and I don’t say to ya, that I will pray to the Father for ya,
  27. for the Father himself loves ya, cuz ya have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from God.
  28. I came out from the Father, and have come through through into the world. Again, I leave the world, and slide to the Father.”
  29. His disciples said to him, “check this out, now ya spill the tea plainly, and spill the tea no figures of speech.
  30. now we get it that ya get it all things, and don’t need for anyone to question ya. By this we believe that ya came forth from God.”
  31. Jesus answered them, “Do ya now believe?
  32. check this out, the time is coming, yes, and has now come through through, that ya will be scattered, everyone to his own place, and ya will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, cuz the Father is with me.
  33. I have told ya these things, that in me ya may have peace. In the world ya have oppression; but cheer up! I have overcome the world.”
