# John Chapter 10

    1. “Most for sure, I tell ya, one who doesn’t enter by the door into the sheep fold, but climbs up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber.
    2. But one who enters in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
    3. The gatekeeper opens the gate for him, and the sheep listen up up to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out.
    4. Whenever he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep roll with him, for they get it his voice.
    5. They will by no means roll with a stranger, but will flee from him; for they don’t get it the voice of strangers.”
    6. Jesus spoke this parable to them, but they didn’t understand what he was telling them.
    7. Jesus so basically said to them again, “Most for sure, I tell ya, I am the sheep’s door.
    8. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep didn’t listen up up to them.
    9. I am the door. If anyone enters in by me, he will be saved, and will slide in and slide out, and will find pasture.
  10. The thief only comes to steal, kill, and tear down. I came that they may have life, and may have it abundantly.
  11. I am the fire shepherd. The fire shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.
  12. He who is a hired hand, and not a shepherd, who doesn’t own the sheep, sees the wolf coming, leaves the sheep, and flees. The wolf snatches the sheep, and scatters them.
  13. The hired hand flees cuz he is a hired hand, and doesn’t care for the sheep.
  14. I am the fire shepherd. I get it my own, and I’m known by my own;
  15. even as the Father knows me, and I get it the Father. I lay down my life for the sheep.
  16. I have other sheep, which aren't of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will hear my voice. They will become one flock with one shepherd.
  17. so basically the Father loves me, cuz I lay down my life, that I may grab it again.
  18. No one takes it away from me, but I lay it down by myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to grab it again. I received this commandment from my Father.”
  19. so basically a division arose again among the Jews cuz of these words.
  20. a lot of them said, “He has a demon, and is insane! Why do ya listen up up to him?”
  21. Others said, “These aren't the sayings of one possessed by a demon. It isn’t possible for a demon to open the eyes of the blind, is it?”
  22. It was the Feast of the Dedication at Jerusalem.
  23. It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the God's house, in Solomon’s porch.
  24. The Jews so basically came around him and said to him, “How long will ya hold us in suspense? If ya are the the huge yeeted, tell us plainly.”
  25. Jesus answered them, “I told ya, and ya don’t believe. The works that I do in my Father’s name, these testify about me.
  26. But ya don’t believe, cuz ya aren't of my sheep, as I told ya.
  27. My sheep hear my voice, and I get it them, and they roll with me.
  28. I hook it up living forever to them. They will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.
  29. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all. No one is able to snatch them out of my Father’s hand.
  30. I and the Father are one.”
  31. so basically Jews took up stones again to stone him.
  32. Jesus answered them, “I have shown ya a lot fire works from my Father. For which of those works do ya stone me?”
  33. The Jews answered him, “We don’t stone ya for a fire work, but for blasphemy: cuz ya, being a man, create yourself God.”
  34. Jesus answered them, “Isn’t it written in your law, ‘I said, ya are gods?’
  35. If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came (and the Scripture can’t be broken),
  36. do ya say of him whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, ‘ya blaspheme,’ cuz I said, ‘I am the Son of God?’
  37. If I don’t do the works of my Father, don’t believe me.
  38. But if I do them, though ya don’t believe me, believe the works; that ya may get it and believe that the Father is in me, and I in the Father.”
  39. They sought again to seize him, and he went out of their hand.
  40. He went away again beyond the Jordan into the place where John was baptizing at first, and there he stayed.
  41. a lot came to him. They said, “John facts did no sign, but everything that John said about this man is true.”
  42. a lot believed in him there.
