# Revelation Chapter 2

  1. “To the angel of the assembly in Ephesus write: “He who holds the seven stars in his right hand, he who walks among the seven golden lampstands says these things:
  2. “I get it your works, and your toil and perseverance, and that ya can’t tolerate evil men, and have tested those who call themselves Jesus broskies, and they aren't, and found them false.
  3. ya have perseverance and have endured for my name’s sake, and have not grown weary.
  4. But I have this against ya, that ya left your first show love.
  5. Remember so basically from where ya have fallen, and turn it around and do the first works; or else I am coming to ya swiftly, and will move your lampstand out of its place, unless ya turn it around.
  6. But this ya have, that ya can't stand the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also can't stand.
  7. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. To him who overcomes I will hook it up to eat of the tree of life, which is in the Paradise of my God.
  8. “To the angel of the assembly in Smyrna write: “The first and the last, who was dead, and has come through to life says these things:
  9. “I get it your works, oppression, and your poverty (but ya are stacked), and the blasphemy of those who say they are Jews, and they aren't, but are a synagogue of Satan.
 10. Don’t be scared of the things which ya are about to suffer. check this out,, the devil is about to throw some of ya into prison, that ya may be tested; and ya will have oppression for ten days. Be faithful to death, and I will hook it up ya the crown of life.
 11. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. He who overcomes won’t be harmed by the second death.
 12. “To the angel of the assembly in Pergamum write: “He who has the sharp two-edged sword says these things:
 13. “I get it your works and where ya dwell, where Satan’s throne is. ya hold firmly to my name, and didn’t deny my trusting the process in the days of Antipas my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among ya, where Satan dwells.
 14. But I have a not much things against ya, cuz ya have there some who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to throw a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit sexual immorality.
 15. So ya also have some who hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans likewise.
 16. turn it around so basically, or else I am coming to ya quickly, and I will create war against them with the sword of my mouth.
 17. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. To him who overcomes, to him I will hook it up of the hidden manna, and I will hook it up him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows but he who receives it.
 18. “To the angel of the assembly in Thyatira write: “The Son of God, who has his eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet are like burnished brass, says these things:
 19. “I get it your works, your show love, trusting the process, service, patient endurance, and that your last works are more than the first.
 20. But I have this against ya, that ya tolerate your woman, Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess. She teaches and seduces my servants to commit sexual immorality, and to eat things sacrificed to idols.
 21. I gave her time to turn it around, but she refuses to turn it around of her sexual immorality.
 22. check this out,, I will throw her into a bed, and those who commit adultery with her into major oppression, unless they turn it around of her works.
 23. I will kill her children with Death, and all the assemblies will get it that I am he who searches the minds and hearts. I will hook it up to each one of ya according to your deeds.
 24. But to ya I say, to the rest who are in Thyatira, as a lot as don’t have this teaching, who don’t get it what some call ‘the deep things of Satan,’ to ya I say, I am not putting any other burden on ya.
 25. Nevertheless, hold that which ya have firmly until I come through.
 26. He who overcomes, and he who keeps my works to the end, to him I will hook it up authority over the nations.
 27. He will rule them with a rod of iron, shattering them like clay pots; as I also have received of my Father:
 28. and I will hook it up him the morning star.
 29. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies.
