# Revelation Chapter 3

  1. “And to the angel of the assembly in Sardis write: “He who has the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars says these things: “I get it your works, that you have a reputation of being alive, but you are dead.
  2. Wake up, and keep the things that remain, which you were about to throw away, for I have found no works of yours perfected before my God.
  3. Remember so basically how you have received and heard. Keep it, and turn it around. If so basically you won’t watch, I will come through as a thief, and you won’t get it what hour I will come through upon you.
  4. Nevertheless you have a not much names in Sardis that did not defile their garments. They will walk with me in white, for they are worthy.
  5. He who overcomes will be arrayed in white garments, and I will in no way blot his name out of the book of life, and I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.
  6. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies.
  7. “To the angel of the assembly in Philadelphia write: “He who is set apart, he who is true, he who has the key of David, he who opens and no one can shut, and who shuts and no one opens, says these things:
  8. “I get it your works (check this out, I have set before you an open door, which no one can shut), that you have a little power, and kept my word, and didn’t deny my name.
  9. check this out, I hook it up of the synagogue of Satan, of those who say they are Jews, and they are not, but lie. check this out, I will create them to come through and giving props before your feet, and to get it that I have loved you.
 10. cuz you kept my command to endure, I also will keep you from the hour of testing, which is to come through on the whole world, to test those who dwell on the earth.
 11. I am coming quickly! Hold firmly that which you have, so that no one takes your crown.
 12. He who overcomes, I will create him a pillar in the God's house of my God, and he will slide out from there no more. I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from my God, and my own new name.
 13. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies.
 14. “To the angel of the assembly in Laodicea write: “The facts, the Faithful and True Witness, the Head of God’s creation, says these things:
 15. “I get it your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were cold or hot.
 16. So, cuz you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will vomit you out of my mouth.
 17. cuz you say, ‘I am stacked, and have gotten riches, and have need of nothing;’ and don’t get it that you are the wretched one, miserable, broke, blind, and naked;
 18. I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, that you may become stacked; and white garments, that you may clothe yourself, and that the shame of your nakedness may not be revealed; and eye salve to anoint your eyes, that you may check it out.
 19. As a lot as I show love, I reprove and chasten. Be zealous so basically, and turn it around.
 20. check this out, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, then I will come through in to him, and will dine with him, and he with me.
 21. He who overcomes, I will hook it up to him to sit down with me on my throne, as I also overcame, and sat down with my Father on his throne.
 22. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies.”
