# Revelation Chapter 11

  1. A reed like a rod was given to me. Someone said, “Rise, and measure God’s God's house, and the prayer spot, and those who giving props in it.
  2. Leave out the court which is outside of the God's house, and don’t measure it, for it has been given to the nations. They will tread the set apart city under foot for forty-two months.
  3. I will hook it up power to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy one thousand two hundred sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.”
  4. These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands, standing before the boss of the earth.
  5. If anyone desires to harm them, fire proceeds out of their mouth and devours their enemies. If anyone desires to harm them, he must be killed in this way.
  6. These have the power to shut up the sky, that it may not rain during the days of their prophecy. They have power over the waters, to turn them into blood, and to strike the earth with every plague, as a lot as they desire.
  7. When they have finished their testimony, the beast that comes up out of the abyss will create war with them, and overcome them, and kill them.
  8. Their dead bodies will be in the street of the major city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also their boss was crucified.
  9. From among the peoples, tribes, languages, and nations people will look at their dead bodies for three and a half days, and will not allow their dead bodies to be laid in a tomb.
 10. Those who dwell on the earth be hyped over them, and they will be glad. They will hook it up gifts to one another, cuz these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth.
 11. After the three and a half days, the breath of life from God entered into them, and they stood on their feet. major fear fell on those who checked out them.
 12. I heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, “come through up here!” They went up into heaven in the cloud, and their enemies checked out them.
 13. In that day there was a major earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified, and gave glory to the God of heaven.
 14. The second woe is past. check this out, the third woe comes quickly.
 15. The seventh angel sounded, and major voices in heaven followed, saying, “The God's squad of the world has become the God's squad of our boss, and of his anointed one. He will reign forever and ever!”
 16. The twenty-four elders, who sit on their thrones before God’s throne, fell on their faces and worshiped God,
 17. saying: “We hook it up you thanks, boss God, the Almighty, the one who is and who was; cuz you have taken your major power, and reigned.
 18. The nations were mad salty, and your wrath came, as did the time for the dead to be judged, and to hook it up your bondservants the prophets, their reward, as well as to the saints, and those who fear your name, to the tiny and the major; and to tear down those who tear down the earth.”
 19. God’s God's house that is in heaven was opened, and the ark of the boss’s God's promise was seen in his God's house. Lightnings, sounds, thunders, an earthquake, and major hail followed.
