# Revelation Chapter 19

  1. After these things I heard something like a loud voice of a major multitude in heaven, saying, “praise God! getting saved, power, and glory belong to our God:
  2. for true and doing what's right are his judgments. For he has judged the major prostitute, who corrupted the earth with her sexual immorality, and he has avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.”
  3. A second said, “praise God! Her smoke goes up forever and ever.”
  4. The twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God who sits on the throne, saying, “facts! praise God!”
  5. A voice came forth from the throne, saying, “hook it up praise to our God, all you his servants, you who fear him, the tiny and the major!”
  6. I heard something like the voice of a major multitude, and like the voice of a lot waters, and like the voice of mighty thunders, saying, “praise God! For the boss our God, the Almighty, reigns!
  7. Let us be hyped and be exceedingly glad, and let us hook it up the glory to him. For the marriage of the Lamb has come through, and his wife has made herself ready.”
  8. It was given to her that she would array herself in bright, pure, fine linen: for the fine linen is the doing what's right acts of the saints.
  9. He said to me, “Write, ‘blessed up are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb.’” He said to me, “These are true words of God.”
 10. I fell down before his feet to giving props him. He said to me, “Look! Don’t do it! I am a fellow bondservant with you and with your brothers who hold the testimony of Jesus. giving props God, for the testimony of Jesus is the Spirit of Prophecy.”
 11. I checked out the heaven opened, and check this out, a white horse, and he who sat on it is called Faithful and True. In righteousness he judges and makes war.
 12. His eyes are a flame of fire, and on his head are a lot crowns. He has names written and a name written which no one knows but he himself.
 13. He is clothed in a garment sprinkled with blood. His name is called “The Word of God.”
 14. The armies which are in heaven followed him on white horses, clothed in white, pure, fine linen.
 15. Out of his mouth proceeds a sharp, double-edged sword, that with it he should strike the nations. He will rule them with an iron rod. He treads the winepress of the fierceness of the wrath of God, the Almighty.
 16. He has on his garment and on his thigh a name written, “ruler OF KINGS, AND boss OF LORDS.”
 17. I checked out an angel standing in the sun. He cried with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in the sky, “come through! Be gathered together to the major supper of God,
 18. that you may eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses and of those who sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and helper, and tiny and major.”
 19. I checked out the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to create war against him who sat on the horse, and against his army.
 20. The beast was taken, and with him the false God's messenger who worked the signs in his sight, with which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped his image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulfur.
 21. The rest were killed with the sword of him who sat on the horse, the sword which came forth out of his mouth. All the birds were filled with their flesh.
