# Revelation Chapter 16

  1. I heard a loud voice out of the God's house, saying to the seven angels, “slide and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God on the earth!”
  2. The first went, and poured out his bowl into the earth, and it became a harmful and evil sore on the people who had the mark of the beast, and who worshiped his image.
  3. The second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became blood as of a dead man. Every living thing in the sea died.
  4. The third poured out his bowl into the rivers and springs of water, and they became blood.
  5. I heard the angel of the waters saying, “You are doing what's right, who are and who were, you set apart One, cuz you have judged these things.
  6. For they poured out the blood of the saints and the prophets, and you have given them blood to drink. They deserve this.”
  7. I heard the prayer spot saying, “Yes, boss God, the Almighty, true and doing what's right are your judgments.”
  8. The fourth poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was given to him to scorch men with fire.
  9. People were scorched with major heat, and people blasphemed the name of God who has the power over these plagues. They didn’t turn it around and hook it up him glory.
 10. The fifth poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and his God's squad was darkened. They gnawed their tongues cuz of the pain,
 11. and they blasphemed the God of heaven cuz of their pains and their sores. They didn’t turn it around of their works.
 12. The sixth poured out his bowl on the major river, the Euphrates. Its water was dried up, that the way might be prepared for the kings that come through from the sunrise.
 13. I checked out coming out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false God's messenger, three unclean spirits, something like frogs;
 14. for they are spirits of demons, performing signs; which slide forth to the kings of the whole inhabited earth, to gather them together for the war of that major day of God, the Almighty.
 15. “check this out, I come through like a thief. blessed up is he who watches, and keeps his clothes, so that he doesn’t walk naked, and they check it out his shame.”
 16. He gathered them together into the place which is called in Hebrew, Megiddo.
 17. The seventh poured out his bowl into the air. A loud voice came forth out of the God's house of heaven, from the throne, saying, “It is done!”
 18. there were lightnings, sounds, and thunders; and there was a major earthquake, such as was not since there were men on the earth, so major an earthquake, so mighty.
 19. The major city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. Babylon the major was remembered in the sight of God, to hook it up to her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.
 20. Every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.
 21. major hailstones, about the weight of a talent, came down out of the sky on people. People blasphemed God cuz of the plague of the hail, for this plague is exceedingly severe.
