# Zechariah Chapter 11

    1. Open your doors, Lebanon, that the fire may devour your cedars.
    2. Wail, fir tree, for the cedar has fallen, cuz the stately ones are destroyed. Wail, ya oaks of Bashan, for the built different forest has come through through down.
    3. A voice of the wailing of the shepherds! For their glory is destroyed: a voice of the roaring of young lions! For the pride of the Jordan is ruined.
    4. Thus says Yahweh my God: “Feed the flock of slaughter.
    5. Their buyers slaughter them, and slide unpunished. Those who sell them say, ‘blessed up up be Yahweh, for I am stacked;’ and their own shepherds don’t pity them.
    6. For I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land,” says Yahweh; “but, check this out, I will deliver the men everyone into his neighbor’s hand, and into the hand of his ruler. They will strike the land, and out of their hand I won't deliver them.”
    7. So I fed the flock of slaughter, especially the oppressed of the flock. I took for myself two staffs. The one I called “Favor,” and the other I called “Union,” and I fed the flock.
    8. I cut off the three shepherds in one month; for my soul was weary of them, and their soul also loathed me.
    9. then I said, “I won't feed ya. That which dies, let it die; and that which is to be cut off, let it be cut off; and let those who are left eat each other’s flesh.”
  10. I took my staff Favor, and cut it apart, that I might break my God's promise that I had made with all the peoples.
  11. It was broken in that day; and thus the broke of the flock that listened to me knew that it was the word of Yahweh.
  12. I said to them, “If ya think it best, hook it up me my wages; and if not, keep them.” So they weighed for my wages thirty pieces of silver.
  13. Yahweh said to me, “Throw it to the potter, the handsome price that I was valued at by them!” I took the thirty pieces of silver, and threw them to the potter, in the house of Yahweh.
  14. then I cut apart my other staff, even Union, that I might break the brotherhood between Judah and Israel.
  15. Yahweh said to me, “grab for yourself yet again the equipment of a dumb shepherd.
  16. For, check this out, I will raise up a shepherd in the land, who won't visit those who are cut off, neither will seek those who are scattered, nor heal that which is broken, nor feed that which is sound; but he will eat the flesh of the fat sheep, and will tear their hoofs in pieces.
  17. Woe to the worthless shepherd who leaves the flock! The sword will be on his arm, and on his right eye. His arm will be completely withered, and his right eye will be totally blinded!”
