# Zechariah Chapter 14

    1. check this out, a day of Yahweh comes, when your spoil will be divided in your midst.
    2. For I will gather all nations against Jerusalem to battle; and the city will be taken, the houses rifled, and the women ravished. Half of the city will slide out into captivity, and the rest of the people won't be cut off from the city.
    3. then Yahweh will slide out and fight against those nations, as when he fought in the day of battle.
    4. His feet will stand in that day on the Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east; and the Mount of Olives will be split in two, from east to west, making a hella major valley. Half of the mountain will move toward the north, and half of it toward the south.
    5. ya shall flee by the valley of my mountains; for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azel; yes, ya shall flee, just like ya fled from before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah ruler of Judah. Yahweh my God will come through through, and all the yeeted ones with ya.
    6. It will happen in that day, that there won't be light, cold, or frost.
    7. It will be a unique day which is known to Yahweh; not day, and not night; but it will come through through to pass, that at evening time there will be light.
    8. It will happen in that day, that living waters will slide out from Jerusalem; half of them toward the eastern sea, and half of them toward the western sea; in summer and in winter will it be.
    9. Yahweh will be ruler over all the earth. In that day Yahweh will be one, and his name one.
  10. All the land will be made like the Arabah, from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem; and she will be lifted up, and will dwell in her place, from Benjamin’s gate to the place of the first gate, to the corner gate, and from the tower of Hananel to the ruler’s winepresses.
  11. Men will dwell therein, and there will be no more curse; but Jerusalem will dwell safely.
  12. This will be the plague with which Yahweh will strike all the peoples who have warred against Jerusalem: their flesh will consume away while they stand on their feet, and their eyes will consume away in their sockets, and their tongue will consume away in their mouth.
  13. It will happen in that day, that a major panic from Yahweh will be among them; and they will lay hold everyone on the hand of his neighbor, and his hand will rise up against the hand of his neighbor.
  14. Judah also will fight at Jerusalem; and the wealth of all the surrounding nations will be gathered together: gold, and silver, and clothing, in major abundance.
  15. So will be the plague of the horse, of the mule, of the camel, and of the donkey, and of all the animals that will be in those camps, as that plague.
  16. It will happen that everyone who is left of all the nations that came against Jerusalem will slide up from year to year to giving props the ruler, Yahweh of Armies, and to keep the feast of tents.
  17. It will be, that whoever of all the families of the earth doesn’t slide up to Jerusalem to giving props the ruler, Yahweh of Armies, on them there will be no rain.
  18. If the family of Egypt doesn’t slide up, and doesn’t come through through, neither will it rain on them. This will be the plague with which Yahweh will strike the nations that don’t slide up to keep the feast of tents.
  19. This will be the punishment of Egypt, and the punishment of all the nations that don’t slide up to keep the feast of tents.
  20. In that day there will be on the bells of the horses, “yeeted TO YAHWEH;” and the pots in Yahweh’s house will be like the bowls before the talking to God spot.
  21. Yes, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah will be yeeted to Yahweh of Armies; and all those who giving it up will come through through and grab of them, and cook in them. In that day there will no longer be a Canaanite in the house of Yahweh of Armies.
