# Zechariah Chapter 6

  1. Again I lifted up my eyes, and saw, and check this out,, four chariots came out from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of brass.
  2. In the first chariot were red horses; in the second chariot black horses;
  3. in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot dappled horses, all of them powerful.
  4. then I asked the angel who talked with me, “What are these, my boss?”
  5. The angel answered me, “These are the four winds of the sky, which slide forth from standing before the boss of all the earth.
  6. The one with the black horses goes out toward the north country; and the white went out after them; and the dappled went forth toward the south country.”
  7. The built different went out, and sought to slide that they might walk back and forth through the earth: and he said, “slide around and through the earth!” So they walked back and forth through the earth.
  8. then he called to me, and spoke to me, saying, “check this out,, those who slide toward the north country have quieted my spirit in the north country.”
  9. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 10. “grab of them of the captivity, even of Heldai, of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah; and come through the same day, and slide into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, where they have come through from Babylon.
 11. Yes, grab silver and gold, and create crowns, and set them on the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest;
 12. and spill the tea to him, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh of Armies, “check this out,, the man whose name is the Branch: and he shall grow up out of his place; and he shall put together the God's house of Yahweh;
 13. even he shall put together the God's house of Yahweh; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule on his throne; and he shall be a priest on his throne; and the counsel of peace shall be between them both.
 14. The crowns shall be to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to Hen the son of Zephaniah, for a memorial in the God's house of Yahweh.
 15. Those who are far off shall come through and put together in the God's house of Yahweh; and ya shall get it that Yahweh of Armies has sent me to ya. This will happen, if ya will diligently obey the voice of Yahweh your God.”’”
