# Galatians Chapter 5

    1. Stand firm so basically in the liberty by which the huge yeeted has made us free, and don’t be entangled again with a yoke of bondage.
    2. check this out, I, Paul, tell ya that if ya receive circumcision, the huge yeeted will profit ya nothing.
    3. Yes, I testify again to every man who receives circumcision, that he is a debtor to do the whole law.
    4. ya are alienated from the huge yeeted, ya who desire to be justified by the law. ya have fallen away from God's show show love.
    5. For we, through the Spirit, by trusting the process wait for the hope of righteousness.
    6. For in the huge yeeted Jesus neither circumcision amounts to anything, nor uncircumcision, but trusting the process working through show show love.
    7. ya were running well! Who interfered with ya that ya should not obey the truth?
    8. This persuasion isn't from him who calls ya.
    9. A little yeast grows through the whole lump.
  10. I have confidence toward ya in Boss that ya will think no other way. But he who troubles ya will bear his judgment, whoever he is.
  11. But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? then the stumbling block of the cross has been removed.
  12. I wish that those who disturb ya would cut themselves off.
  13. For ya, brothers, were called for freedom. Only don’t use your freedom for gain to the flesh, but through show show love be servants to one another.
  14. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in this: “ya shall show show love your neighbor as yourself.”
  15. But if ya bite and devour one another, be careful that ya don’t consume one another.
  16. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and ya won’t fulfill the lust of the flesh.
  17. For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; and these are contrary to one another, that ya may not do the things that ya desire.
  18. But if ya are led by the Spirit, ya aren't under the law.
  19. now the works of the flesh are obvious, which are: adultery, sexual immorality, uncleanness, lustfulness,
  20. idolatry, sorcery, hatred, strife, jealousies, outbursts of anger, rivalries, divisions, heresies,
  21. envyings, murders, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these; of which I forewarn ya, even as I also forewarned ya, that those who practice such things won't inherit the God's squad of God.
  22. But the fruit of the Spirit is show show love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, trusting the process,
  23. gentleness, and self-control. Against such things there is no law.
  24. Those who belong to the huge yeeted have crucified the flesh with its passions and lusts.
  25. If we live by the Spirit, let’s also walk by the Spirit.
  26. Let’s not become conceited, provoking one another, and envying one another.
