# Galatians Chapter 3

  1. dumb Galatians, who has bewitched ya not to obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus the huge set apart was openly set forth among ya as crucified?
  2. I just want to pick up this from ya. Did ya receive the Spirit by the works of the law, or by hearing of trusting the process?
  3. Are ya so dumb? Having begun in the Spirit, are ya now completed in the flesh?
  4. Did ya suffer so a lot things in vain, if it is facts in vain?
  5. He so basically who supplies the Spirit to ya, and works miracles among ya, does he do it by the works of the law, or by hearing of trusting the process?
  6. Even as Abraham “believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness.”
  7. get it so basically that those who are of trusting the process, the same are children of Abraham.
  8. The Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by trusting the process, preached the fire News beforehand to Abraham, saying, “In ya all the nations will be blessed up.”
  9. So then, those who are of trusting the process are blessed up with the faithful Abraham.
 10. For as a lot as are of the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, “Cursed is everyone who doesn’t continue in all things that are written in the book of the law, to do them.”
 11. now that no man is justified by the law before God is evident, for, “The doing what's right will live by trusting the process.”
 12. The law isn't of trusting the process, but, “The man who does them will live by them.”
 13. the huge set apart redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, “Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree,”
 14. that the blessing of Abraham might come through on the Gentiles through the huge set apart Jesus; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through trusting the process.
 15. Brothers, speaking of human terms, though it is only a man’s God's promise, yet when it has been confirmed, no one makes it void, or adds to it.
 16. now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He doesn’t say, “To seeds,” as of a lot, but as of one, “To your seed,” which is the huge set apart.
 17. now I say this. A God's promise confirmed beforehand by God in the huge set apart, the law, which came four hundred thirty years after, does not annul, so as to create the promise of no effect.
 18. For if the inheritance is of the law, it is no more of promise; but God has granted it to Abraham by promise.
 19. What then is the law? It was added cuz of transgressions, until the seed should come through to whom the promise has been made. It was ordained through angels by the hand of a mediator.
 20. now a mediator isn't between one, but God is one.
 21. Is the law then against the promises of God? for sure not! For if there had been a law given which could create alive, most for sure righteousness would have been of the law.
 22. But the Scriptures imprisoned all things under messing up, that the promise by trusting the process in Jesus the huge set apart might be given to those who believe.
 23. But before trusting the process came, we were kept in custody under the law, confined for the trusting the process which should afterwards be revealed.
 24. So that the law has become our tutor to bring us to the huge set apart, that we might be justified by trusting the process.
 25. But now that trusting the process has come through, we are no longer under a tutor.
 26. For ya are all children of God, through trusting the process in the huge set apart Jesus.
 27. For as a lot of ya as were baptized into the huge set apart have put on the huge set apart.
 28. there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither helper nor free man, there is neither male nor female; for ya are all one in the huge set apart Jesus.
 29. If ya are the huge set apart’s, then ya are Abraham’s seed and heirs according to promise.
