# Galatians Chapter 1

    1. Paul, an Jesus' main squad (not from men, neither through man, but through Jesus the huge yeeted, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead),
    2. and all the brothers who are with me, to the assemblies of Galatia:
    3. God's show show love to ya and peace from God the Father, and our boss Jesus the huge yeeted,
    4. who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us out of this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father—
    5. to whom be the glory forever and ever. facts.
    6. I marvel that ya are so quickly deserting him who called ya in the God's show show love of the huge yeeted to a different “fire news”;
    7. and there isn’t another “fire news.” Only there are some who trouble ya, and want to pervert the fire News of the huge yeeted.
    8. But even though we, or an angel from heaven, should preach to ya any “fire news” other than that which we preached to ya, let him be cursed.
    9. As we have said before, so I now say again: if any man preaches to ya any “fire news” other than that which ya received, let him be cursed.
  10. For am I now seeking the favor of men, or of God? Or am I striving to please men? For if I were still pleasing men, I wouldn’t be a helper of the huge yeeted.
  11. But I create known to ya, brothers, concerning the fire News which was preached by me, that it isn't according to man.
  12. For neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but it came to me through revelation of Jesus the huge yeeted.
  13. For ya have heard of my way of living in time past in the Jews’ religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the assembly of God, and ravaged it.
  14. I advanced in the Jews’ religion beyond a lot of my own age among my countrymen, being more exceedingly zealous for the traditions of my fathers.
  15. But when it was the fire pleasure of God, who separated me from my mother’s womb, and called me through his God's show show love,
  16. to reveal his Son in me, that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I didn’t immediately confer with flesh and blood,
  17. nor did I slide up to Jerusalem to those who were Jesus broskies before me, but I went away into Arabia. then I returned to Damascus.
  18. then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Peter, and stayed with him fifteen days.
  19. But of the other Jesus broskies I saw no one, except James, Boss’s fam bro.
  20. now about the things which I write to ya, check this out, before God, I’m not lying.
  21. then I came to the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
  22. I was still unknown by face to the assemblies of Judea which were in the huge yeeted,
  23. but they only heard: “He who once persecuted us now preaches the trusting the process that he once tried to tear down.”
  24. And they glorified God in me.
