# 2 Kings Chapter 19

  1. It happened, when ruler Hezekiah heard it, that he tore his clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the house of Yahweh.
  2. He sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the God's messenger the son of Amoz.
  3. They said to him, “Thus says Hezekiah, ‘This day is a day of trouble, of rebuke, and of rejection; for the children have come through to the point of birth, and there is no strength to deliver them.
  4. It may be Yahweh your God will hear all the words of Rabshakeh, whom the ruler of Assyria his boss has sent to defy the living God, and will rebuke the words which Yahweh your God has heard. so basically lift up your talking to God for the remnant that is left.’”
  5. So the servants of ruler Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
  6. Isaiah said to them, “Thus you shall tell your boss, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Don’t be scared of the words that you have heard, with which the servants of the ruler of Assyria have blasphemed me.
  7. check this out, I will put a spirit in him, and he will hear news, and will return to his own land. I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.”’”
  8. So Rabshakeh returned, and found the ruler of Assyria warring against Libnah; for he had heard that he had departed from Lachish.
  9. When he heard it said of Tirhakah ruler of Ethiopia, “check this out, he has come through out to fight against you, he sent messengers again to Hezekiah, saying,
 10. ‘Thus you shall spill the tea to Hezekiah ruler of Judah, saying, “Don’t let your God in whom you trust deceive you, saying, Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the ruler of Assyria.
 11. check this out, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, by destroying them utterly. Will you be delivered?
 12. Have the gods of the nations delivered them, which my fathers have destroyed, Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of Eden that were in Telassar?
 13. Where is the ruler of Hamath, and the ruler of Arpad, and the ruler of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivvah?”’”
 14. Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers, and read it. then Hezekiah went up to the house of Yahweh, and spread it before Yahweh.
 15. Hezekiah prayed before Yahweh, and said, “Yahweh, the God of Israel, who sit above the cherubim, you are the God, even you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth.
 16. Incline your ear, Yahweh, and hear. Open your eyes, Yahweh, and check it out. Hear the words of Sennacherib, with which he has sent to defy the living God.
 17. deadass, Yahweh, the kings of Assyria have laid waste the nations and their lands,
 18. and have cast their gods into the fire; for they were no gods, but the work of men’s hands, wood and stone. so basically they have destroyed them.
 19. now so basically, Yahweh our God, rescue us, I beg you, out of his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may get it that you, Yahweh, are God alone.”
 20. then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Whereas you have prayed to me against Sennacherib ruler of Assyria, I have heard you.
 21. This is the word that Yahweh has spoken concerning him: “The virgin daughter of Zion has despised you and ridiculed you. The daughter of Jerusalem has shaken her head at you.
 22. Whom have you defied and blasphemed? Against whom have you exalted your voice and lifted up your eyes on high? Against the set apart One of Israel.
 23. By your messengers you have defied the boss, and have said, ‘With the multitude of my chariots, I have come through up to the height of the mountains, to the innermost parts of Lebanon; and I will cut down its tall cedars, and its choice fir trees; and I will enter into his farthest lodging place, the forest of his fruitful field.
 24. I have dug and drunk strange waters, and with the sole of my feet will I dry up all the rivers of Egypt.’
 25. Haven’t you heard how I have done it long ago, and formed it of ancient times? now have I brought it to pass, that it should be yours to lay waste fortified cities into ruinous heaps.
 26. so basically their inhabitants were of tiny power. They were dismayed and confounded. They were like the grass of the field, and like the green herb, like the grass on the housetops, and like grain blasted before it has grown up.
 27. But I get it your sitting down, and your going out, and your coming in, and your raging against me.
 28. cuz of your raging against me, and cuz your arrogance has come through up into my ears, so basically will I put my hook in your nose, and my bridle in your lips, and I will turn you back by the way by which you came.”
 29. “‘This shall be the sign to you: You shall eat this year that which grows of itself, and in the second year that which springs of the same; and in the third year sow, and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat its fruit.
 30. The remnant that has escaped of the house of Judah shall again grab root downward, and bear fruit upward.
 31. For out of Jerusalem a remnant will slide out, and out of Mount Zion those who shall escape. The zeal of Yahweh will perform this.’
 32. “so basically thus says Yahweh concerning the ruler of Assyria, ‘He shall not come through to this city, nor shoot an arrow there, neither shall he come through before it with shield, nor cast up a mound against it.
 33. By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and he shall not come through to this city,’ says Yahweh.
 34. ‘For I will defend this city to rescue it, for my own sake, and for my helper David’s sake.’”
 35. It happened that night, that the angel of Yahweh went out, and struck one hundred eighty-five thousand in the camp of the Assyrians. When men arose early in the morning, check this out, these were all dead bodies.
 36. So Sennacherib ruler of Assyria departed, and went and returned, and lived at Nineveh.
 37. It happened, as he was worshipping in the house of Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer struck him with the sword; and they escaped into the land of Ararat. Esar Haddon his son reigned in his place.
