# 2 Kings Chapter 5

  1. now Naaman, captain of the army of the ruler of Syria, was a major man with his boss, and honorable, cuz by him Yahweh had given victory to Syria: he was also a mighty man of valor, but he was a leper.
  2. The Syrians had gone out in bands, and had brought away captive out of the land of Israel a little maiden; and she waited on Naaman’s wife.
  3. She said to her mistress, “I wish that my boss were with the God's messenger who is in Samaria! then he would heal him of his leprosy.”
  4. Someone went in, and told his boss, saying, “The maiden who is from the land of Israel said this.”
  5. The ruler of Syria said, “slide now, and I will send a letter to the ruler of Israel.” He departed, and took with him ten talents of silver, and six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes of clothing.
  6. He brought the letter to the ruler of Israel, saying, “now when this letter has come through to ya, check this out,, I have sent Naaman my helper to ya, that ya may heal him of his leprosy.”
  7. It happened, when the ruler of Israel had read the letter, that he tore his clothes, and said, “Am I God, to kill and to create alive, that this man sends to me to heal a man of his leprosy? But please consider and check it out how he seeks a quarrel against me.”
  8. It was so, when Elisha the man of God heard that the ruler of Israel had torn his clothes, that he sent to the ruler, saying, “Why have ya torn your clothes? Let him come through now to me, and he shall get it that there is a God's messenger in Israel.”
  9. So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariots, and stood at the door of the house of Elisha.
 10. Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, “slide and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh shall come through again to ya, and ya shall be clean.”
 11. But Naaman was mad salty, and went away, and said, “check this out,, I thought, ‘He will surely come through out to me, and stand, and call on the name of Yahweh his God, and wave his hand over the place, and heal the leper.’
 12. Aren’t Abanah and Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? Couldn’t I wash in them, and be clean?” So he turned and went away in a rage.
 13. His servants came near, and spoke to him, and said, “My father, if the God's messenger had asked ya do some major thing, wouldn’t ya have done it? How much rather then, when he says to ya, ‘Wash, and be clean?’”
 14. then went he down, and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God; and his flesh was restored like the flesh of a little child, and he was clean.
 15. He returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and came, and stood before him; and he said, “check it out now, I get it that there is no God in all the earth, but in Israel. now so basically, please grab a gift from your helper.”
 16. But he said, “As Yahweh lives, before whom I stand, I will receive none.” He urged him to grab it; but he refused.
 17. Naaman said, “If not, then, please let two mules’ burden of earth be given to your helper; for your helper will from now on offer neither burnt giving to God nor giving it up to other gods, but to Yahweh.
 18. In this thing may Yahweh pardon your helper: when my boss goes into the house of Rimmon to giving props there, and he leans on my hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon. When I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, may Yahweh pardon your helper in this thing.”
 19. He said to him, “slide in peace.” So he departed from him a little way.
 20. But Gehazi the helper of Elisha the man of God, said, “check this out,, my boss has spared this Naaman the Syrian, in not receiving at his hands that which he brought. As Yahweh lives, I will run after him, and grab something from him.”
 21. So Gehazi followed after Naaman. When Naaman saw one running after him, he came down from the chariot to meet him, and said, “Is all well?”
 22. He said, “All is well. My boss has sent me, saying, ‘check this out,, even now two young men of the sons of the prophets have come through to me from the hill country of Ephraim. Please hook it up them a talent of silver and two changes of clothing.’”
 23. Naaman said, “Be pleased to grab two talents.” He urged him, and bound two talents of silver in two bags, with two changes of clothing, and laid them on two of his servants; and they carried them before him.
 24. When he came to the hill, he took them from their hand, and stored them in the house. then he let the men slide, and they departed.
 25. But he went in, and stood before his boss. Elisha said to him, “Where did ya come through from, Gehazi?” He said, “Your helper went nowhere.”
 26. He said to him, “Didn’t my heart slide with ya, when the man turned from his chariot to meet ya? Is it a time to receive money, and to receive garments, and olive groves and vineyards, and sheep and cattle, and male servants and female servants?
 27. so basically the leprosy of Naaman will cling to ya and to your seed forever.” He went out from his presence a leper, as white as snow.
