# 2 Timothy Chapter 1

  1. Paul, an Jesus' main squad of Jesus the huge set apart through the will of God, according to the promise of the life which is in the huge set apart Jesus,
  2. to Timothy, my beloved child: God's show love, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and the huge set apart Jesus our boss.
  3. I thank God, whom I help out out as my forefathers did, with a pure conscience. How unceasing is my memory of ya in my petitions, night and day
  4. longing to check it out ya, remembering your tears, that I may be filled with joy;
  5. having been reminded of the sincere trusting the process that is in ya; which lived first in your grandmother Lois, and your mother Eunice, and, I am persuaded, in ya also.
  6. For this cause, I remind ya that ya should stir up the gift of God which is in ya through the laying on of my hands.
  7. For God didn’t hook it up us a spirit of fear, but of power, show love, and self-control.
  8. so basically don’t be ashamed of the testimony of our boss, nor of me his prisoner; but endure hardship for the fire News according to the power of God,
  9. who saved us and called us with a set apart calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and God's show love, which was given to us in the huge set apart Jesus before times eternal,
 10. but has now been revealed by the appearing of our Savior, the huge set apart Jesus, who abolished death, and brought life and immortality to light through the fire News.
 11. For this, I was appointed as a preacher, an Jesus' main squad, and a teacher of the Gentiles.
 12. For this cause I also suffer these things. Yet I am not ashamed, for I get it him whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that he is able to guard that which I have committed to him against that day.
 13. Hold the pattern of sound words which ya have heard from me, in trusting the process and show love which is in the huge set apart Jesus.
 14. That fire thing which was committed to ya, guard through the set apart Spirit who dwells in us.
 15. This ya get it, that all who are in Asia turned away from me; of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.
 16. May the boss grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he a lot refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain,
 17. but when he was in Rome, he sought me diligently, and found me
 18. (the boss grant to him to find the boss’s mercy in that day); and in how a lot things he served at Ephesus, ya get it hella well.
