# 2 Timothy Chapter 4

  1. I command you so basically before God and the boss Jesus anointed one, who will judge the living and the dead at his appearing and his God's squad:
  2. preach the word; be urgent in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, and exhort, with all patience and teaching.
  3. For the time will come through when they will not listen up to the sound doctrine, but, having itching ears, will heap up for themselves teachers after their own lusts;
  4. and will turn away their ears from the truth, and turn aside to fables.
  5. But you be sober in all things, suffer hardship, do the work of an evangelist, and fulfill your ministry.
  6. For I am already being offered, and the time of my departure has come through.
  7. I have fought the fire fight. I have finished the course. I have kept the trusting the process.
  8. From now on, there is stored up for me the crown of righteousness, which the boss, the doing what's right judge, will hook it up to me on that day; and not to me only, but also to all those who have loved his appearing.
  9. Be diligent to come through to me soon,
 10. for Demas left me, having loved this present world, and went to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, and Titus to Dalmatia.
 11. Only Luke is with me. grab Mark, and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for service.
 12. But I sent Tychicus to Ephesus.
 13. Bring the cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus when you come through, and the books, especially the parchments.
 14. Alexander, the coppersmith, did much evil to me. The boss will repay him according to his works,
 15. of whom you also must beware; for he greatly opposed our words.
 16. At my first defense, no one came to help out me, but all left me. May it not be held against them.
 17. But the boss stood by me, and strengthened me, that through me the message might be fully proclaimed, and that all the Gentiles might hear; and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.
 18. And the boss will deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me for his heavenly God's squad; to whom be the glory forever and ever. facts.
 19. Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus.
 20. Erastus remained at Corinth, but I left Trophimus at Miletus sick.
 21. Be diligent to come through before winter. Eubulus salutes you, as do Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brothers.
 22. The boss Jesus anointed one be with your spirit. God's show love be with you. facts.
