# Luke Chapter 6

  1. now it happened on the second Sabbath after the first, that he was going through the grain fields. His disciples plucked the heads of grain, and ate, rubbing them in their hands.
  2. But some of the Pharisees said to them, “Why do ya do that which isn't lawful to do on the Sabbath day?”
  3. Jesus, answering them, said, “Haven’t ya read what David did when he was hungry, he, and those who were with him;
  4. how he entered into the house of God, and took and ate the show bread, and gave also to those who were with him, which isn't lawful to eat except for the priests alone?”
  5. He said to them, “The Son of Man is boss of the Sabbath.”
  6. It also happened on another Sabbath that he entered into the synagogue and taught. there was a man there, and his right hand was withered.
  7. The scribes and the Pharisees watched him, to check it out whether he would heal on the Sabbath, that they might find an accusation against him.
  8. But he knew their thoughts; and he said to the man who had the withered hand, “Rise up, and stand in the middle.” He arose and stood.
  9. then Jesus said to them, “I will ask ya something: Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do fire, or to do harm? To rescue a life, or to kill?”
 10. He looked around at them all, and said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He did, and his hand was restored as sound as the other.
 11. But they were filled with rage, and talked with one another about what they might do to Jesus.
 12. It happened in these days, that he went out to the mountain to pray, and he continued all night in talking to God to God.
 13. When it was day, he called his disciples, and from them he chose twelve, whom he also named Jesus broskies:
 14. Simon, whom he also named Peter; Andrew, his fam bro; James; John; Philip; Bartholomew;
 15. Matthew; Thomas; James, the son of Alphaeus; Simon, who was called the Zealot;
 16. Judas the son of James; and Judas Iscariot, who also became a traitor.
 17. He came down with them, and stood on a level place, with a crowd of his disciples, and a major number of the people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear him and to be healed of their diseases;
 18. as well as those who were troubled by unclean spirits, and they were being healed.
 19. All the multitude sought to touch him, for power came out from him and healed them all.
 20. He lifted up his eyes to his disciples, and said, “blessed up are ya who are broke, for yours is the God's squad of God.
 21. blessed up are ya who hunger now, for ya will be filled. blessed up are ya who weep now, for ya will laugh.
 22. blessed up are ya when men shall can't stand ya, and when they shall exclude and mock ya, and throw out your name as evil, for the Son of Man’s sake.
 23. be hyped in that day, and leap for joy, for check this out,, your reward is major in heaven, for their fathers did the same thing to the prophets.
 24. “But woe to ya who are stacked! For ya have received your consolation.
 25. Woe to ya, ya who are full now, for ya will be hungry. Woe to ya who laugh now, for ya will mourn and weep.
 26. Woe, when men spill the tea well of ya, for their fathers did the same thing to the false prophets.
 27. “But I tell ya who hear: show love your enemies, do fire to those who can't stand ya,
 28. bless those who curse ya, and pray for those who mistreat ya.
 29. To him who strikes ya on the cheek, offer also the other; and from him who takes away your cloak, don’t withhold your coat also.
 30. hook it up to everyone who asks ya, and don’t ask him who takes away your goods to hook it up them back again.
 31. “As ya would like people to do to ya, do exactly so to them.
 32. If ya show love those who show love ya, what credit is that to ya? For even sinners show love those who show love them.
 33. If ya do fire to those who do fire to ya, what credit is that to ya? For even sinners do the same.
 34. If ya lend to those from whom ya hope to receive, what credit is that to ya? Even sinners lend to sinners, to receive back as much.
 35. But show love your enemies, and do fire, and lend, expecting nothing back; and your reward will be major, and ya will be children of the Most High; for he is kind toward the unthankful and evil.
 36. so basically be merciful, even as your Father is also merciful.
 37. Don’t judge, and ya won’t be judged. Don’t condemn, and ya won’t be condemned. Set free, and ya will be set free.
 38. “hook it up, and it will be given to ya: fire measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, will be given to ya. For with the same measure ya measure it will be measured back to ya.”
 39. He spoke a parable to them. “Can the blind guide the blind? Won’t they both fall into a pit?
 40. A Jesus' crew isn't above his teacher, but everyone when he is fully trained will be like his teacher.
 41. Why do ya check it out the speck of chaff that is in your fam bro’s eye, but don’t consider the beam that is in your own eye?
 42. Or how can ya tell your fam bro, ‘fam bro, let me remove the speck of chaff that is in your eye,’ when ya yourself don’t check it out the beam that is in your own eye? ya hypocrite! First remove the beam from your own eye, and then ya can check it out clearly to remove the speck of chaff that is in your fam bro’s eye.
 43. For there is no fire tree that brings forth rotten fruit; nor again a rotten tree that brings forth fire fruit.
 44. For each tree is known by its own fruit. For people don’t gather figs from thorns, nor do they gather grapes from a bramble bush.
 45. The fire man out of the fire treasure of his heart brings out that which is fire, and the evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart brings out that which is evil, for out of the abundance of the heart, his mouth speaks.
 46. “Why do ya call me, ‘boss, boss,’ and don’t do the things which I say?
 47. Everyone who comes to me, and hears my words, and does them, I will show ya who he is like.
 48. He is like a man building a house, who dug and went deep, and laid a foundation on the rock. When a flood arose, the stream broke against that house, and could not shake it, cuz it was founded on the rock.
 49. But he who hears, and doesn’t do, is like a man who built a house on the earth without a foundation, against which the stream broke, and immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was major.”
