# Luke Chapter 20

  1. It happened on one of those days, as he was teaching the people in the God's house and preaching the fire News, that the priests and scribes came to him with the elders.
  2. They asked him, “Tell us: by what authority do ya do these things? Or who is giving ya this authority?”
  3. He answered them, “I also will ask ya one question. Tell me:
  4. the baptism of John, was it from heaven, or from men?”
  5. They reasoned with themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say, ‘Why didn’t ya believe him?’
  6. But if we say, ‘From men,’ all the people will stone us, for they are persuaded that John was a God's messenger.”
  7. They answered that they didn’t get it where it was from.
  8. Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell ya by what authority I do these things.”
  9. He began to tell the people this parable. “A man planted a vineyard, and rented it out to some farmers, and went into another country for a long time.
 10. At the proper season, he sent a helper to the farmers to collect his share of the fruit of the vineyard. But the farmers beat him, and sent him away empty.
 11. He sent yet another helper, and they also beat him, and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty.
 12. He sent yet a third, and they also wounded him, and threw him out.
 13. the boss of the vineyard said, ‘What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. It may be that seeing him, they will respect him.’
 14. “But when the farmers saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, ‘This is the heir. come through, let’s kill him, that the inheritance may be ours.’
 15. They threw him out of the vineyard, and killed him. What so basically will the boss of the vineyard do to them?
 16. He will come through and tear down these farmers, and will hook it up the vineyard to others.” When they heard it, they said, “May it never be!”
 17. But he looked at them, and said, “then what is this that is written, ‘The stone which the builders rejected, the same was made the chief cornerstone?’
 18. Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, but it will crush whomever it falls on to dust.”
 19. The chief priests and the scribes sought to lay hands on him that hella hour, but they feared the people—for they knew he had spoken this parable against them.
 20. They watched him, and sent out spies, who pretended to be doing what's right, that they might trap him in something he said, so as to deliver him up to the power and authority of the governor.
 21. They asked him, “Teacher, we get it that ya say and drop knowledge what is right, and aren’t partial to anyone, but deadass, drop knowledge the way of God.
 22. Is it lawful for us to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?”
 23. But he perceived their craftiness, and said to them, “Why do ya test me?
 24. Show me a denarius. Whose image and inscription are on it?” They answered, “Caesar’s.”
 25. He said to them, “then hook it up to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.”
 26. They weren’t able to trap him in his words before the people. They marveled at his answer, and were silent.
 27. Some of the Sadducees came to him, those who deny that there is a resurrection.
 28. They asked him, “Teacher, Moses wrote to us that if a man’s fam bro dies having a wife, and he is childless, his fam bro should grab the wife, and raise up children for his fam bro.
 29. there were so basically seven brothers. The first took a wife, and died childless.
 30. The second took her as wife, and he died childless.
 31. The third took her, and likewise the seven all left no children, and died.
 32. Afterward the woman also died.
 33. so basically in the resurrection whose wife of them will she be? For the seven had her as a wife.”
 34. Jesus said to them, “The children of this age marry, and are given in marriage.
 35. But those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage.
 36. For they can’t die any more, for they are like the angels, and are children of God, being children of the resurrection.
 37. But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed at the bush, when he called the boss ‘The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.’
 38. now he isn't the God of the dead, but of the living, for all are alive to him.”
 39. Some of the scribes answered, “Teacher, ya spill the tea well.”
 40. They didn’t dare to ask him any more questions.
 41. He said to them, “Why do they say that the the huge set apart is David’s son?
 42. David himself says in the book of Psalms, ‘the boss said to my boss, “Sit at my right hand,
 43. until I create your enemies the footstool of your feet.”’
 44. “David so basically calls him boss, so how is he his son?”
 45. In the hearing of all the people, he said to his disciples,
 46. “Beware of the scribes, who like to walk in long robes, and show love greetings in the marketplaces, the best seats in the synagogues, and the best places at feasts;
 47. who devour widows’ houses, and for a pretense create long prayers: these will receive greater condemnation.”
