# Luke Chapter 13

  1. now there were some present at the same time who told him about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices.
  2. Jesus answered them, “Do ya think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, cuz they suffered such things?
  3. I tell ya, no, but unless ya turn it around, ya will all perish in the same way.
  4. Or those eighteen, on whom the tower in Siloam fell, and killed them; do ya think that they were worse offenders than all the men who dwell in Jerusalem?
  5. I tell ya, no, but, unless ya turn it around, ya will all perish in the same way.”
  6. He spoke this parable. “A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it, and found none.
  7. He said to the vine dresser, ‘check this out,, these three years I have come through looking for fruit on this fig tree, and found none. Cut it down. Why does it waste the soil?’
  8. He answered, ‘boss, leave it alone this year also, until I dig around it, and fertilize it.
  9. If it bears fruit, fine; but if not, after that, ya can cut it down.’”
 10. He was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath day.
 11. check this out,, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and she was bent over, and could in no way straighten herself up.
 12. When Jesus saw her, he called her, and said to her, “Woman, ya are freed from your infirmity.”
 13. He laid his hands on her, and immediately she stood up straight, and glorified God.
 14. The ruler of the synagogue, being indignant cuz Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the multitude, “there are six days in which men ought to work. so basically come through on those days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day!”
 15. so basically the boss answered him, “ya hypocrites! Doesn’t each one of ya free his ox or his donkey from the stall on the Sabbath, and show the way him away to water?
 16. Ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan had bound eighteen long years, be freed from this bondage on the Sabbath day?”
 17. As he said these things, all his adversaries were disappointed, and all the multitude rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him.
 18. He said, “What is the God's squad of God like? To what shall I compare it?
 19. It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and put in his own garden. It grew, and became a large tree, and the birds of the sky lodged in its branches.”
 20. Again he said, “To what shall I compare the God's squad of God?
 21. It is like yeast, which a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, until it was all leavened.”
 22. He went on his way through cities and villages, teaching, and traveling on to Jerusalem.
 23. One said to him, “boss, are they not much who are saved?” He said to them,
 24. “Strive to enter in by the narrow door, for a lot, I tell ya, will seek to enter in, and won't be able.
 25. When once the boss of the house has risen up, and has shut the door, and ya begin to stand outside, and to knock at the door, saying, ‘boss, boss, open to us!’ then he will answer and tell ya, ‘I don’t get it ya or where ya come through from.’
 26. then ya will begin to say, ‘We ate and drank in your presence, and ya taught in our streets.’
 27. He will say, ‘I tell ya, I don’t get it where ya come through from. Depart from me, all ya workers of iniquity.’
 28. there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ya check it out Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and all the prophets, in the God's squad of God, and yourselves being thrown outside.
 29. They will come through from the east, west, north, and south, and will sit down in the God's squad of God.
 30. check this out,, there are some who are last who will be first, and there are some who are first who will be last.”
 31. On that same day, some Pharisees came, saying to him, “Get out of here, and slide away, for Herod wants to kill ya.”
 32. He said to them, “slide and tell that fox, ‘check this out,, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I complete my mission.
 33. Nevertheless I must slide on my way today and tomorrow and the next day, for it can’t be that a God's messenger perish outside of Jerusalem.’
 34. “Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that kills the prophets, and stones those who are sent to her! How a lot I wanted to gather your children together, like a hen gathers her own brood under her wings, and ya refused!
 35. check this out,, your house is left to ya desolate. I tell ya, ya won't check it out me, until ya say, ‘blessed up is he who comes in the name of the boss!’”
