# Luke Chapter 12

  1. Meanwhile, when a multitude of a lot thousands had gathered together, so much so that they trampled on each other, he began to tell his disciples first of all, “Beware of the yeast of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
  2. But there is nothing covered up, that won't be revealed, nor hidden, that won't be known.
  3. so basically whatever ya have said in the darkness will be heard in the light. What ya have spoken in the ear in the inner rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops.
  4. “I tell ya, my friends, don’t be scared of those who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do.
  5. But I will warn ya whom ya should fear. Fear him, who after he has killed, has power to cast into Gehenna. Yes, I tell ya, fear him.
  6. “Aren’t five sparrows sold for two assaria coins? Not one of them is forgotten by God.
  7. But the hella hairs of your head are all numbered. so basically don’t be scared. ya are of more value than a lot sparrows.
  8. “I tell ya, everyone who confesses me before men, him will the Son of Man also confess before the angels of God;
  9. but he who denies me in the presence of men will be denied in the presence of the angels of God.
 10. Everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but those who blaspheme against the set apart Spirit won't be forgiven.
 11. When they bring ya before the synagogues, the rulers, and the authorities, don’t be anxious how or what ya will answer, or what ya will say;
 12. for the set apart Spirit will drop knowledge ya in that same hour what ya must say.”
 13. One of the multitude said to him, “Teacher, tell my fam bro to divide the inheritance with me.”
 14. But he said to him, “Man, who made me a judge or an arbitrator over ya?”
 15. He said to them, “Beware! Keep yourselves from covetousness, for a man’s life doesn’t consist of the abundance of the things which he possesses.”
 16. He spoke a parable to them, saying, “The ground of a certain stacked man brought forth abundantly.
 17. He reasoned within himself, saying, ‘What will I do, cuz I don’t have room to store my crops?’
 18. He said, ‘This is what I will do. I will pull down my barns, and put together bigger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods.
 19. I will tell my soul, “Soul, ya have a lot goods laid up for a lot years. grab your ease, eat, drink, be merry.”’
 20. “But God said to him, ‘ya dumb one, tonight your soul is required of ya. The things which ya have prepared—whose will they be?’
 21. So is he who lays up treasure for himself, and isn't stacked toward God.”
 22. He said to his disciples, “so basically I tell ya, don’t be anxious for your life, what ya will eat, nor yet for your body, what ya will wear.
 23. Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothing.
 24. Consider the ravens: they don’t sow, they don’t reap, they have no warehouse or barn, and God feeds them. How much more valuable are ya than birds!
 25. Which of ya by being anxious can add a cubit to his height?
 26. If then ya aren’t able to do even the least things, why are ya anxious about the rest?
 27. Consider the lilies, how they grow. They don’t toil, neither do they spin; yet I tell ya, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
 28. But if this is how God clothes the grass in the field, which today exists, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, how much more will he clothe ya, O ya of little trusting the process?
 29. Don’t seek what ya will eat or what ya will drink; neither be anxious.
 30. For the nations of the world seek after all of these things, but your Father knows that ya need these things.
 31. But seek God’s God's squad, and all these things will be added to ya.
 32. Don’t be scared, little flock, for it is your Father’s fire pleasure to hook it up ya the God's squad.
 33. Sell that which ya have, and hook it up gifts to the needy. create for yourselves purses which don’t grow old, a treasure in the heavens that doesn’t fail, where no thief approaches, neither moth destroys.
 34. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
 35. “Let your waist be dressed and your lamps burning.
 36. Be like men watching for their boss, when he returns from the marriage feast; that, when he comes and knocks, they may immediately open to him.
 37. blessed up are those servants, whom the boss will find watching when he comes. Most for sure I tell ya, that he will dress himself, and create them recline, and will come through and help out out them.
 38. They will be blessed up if he comes in the second or third watch, and finds them so.
 39. But get it this, that if the boss of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched, and not allowed his house to be broken into.
 40. so basically be ready also, for the Son of Man is coming in an hour that ya don’t expect him.”
 41. Peter said to him, “boss, are ya telling this parable to us, or to everybody?”
 42. the boss said, “Who then is the faithful and smart steward, whom his boss will set over his household, to hook it up them their portion of food at the right times?
 43. blessed up is that helper whom his boss will find doing so when he comes.
 44. deadass, I tell ya, that he will set him over all that he has.
 45. But if that helper says in his heart, ‘My boss delays his coming,’ and begins to beat the menservants and the maidservants, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken,
 46. then the boss of that helper will come through in a day when he isn’t expecting him, and in an hour that he doesn’t get it, and will cut him in two, and place his portion with the unfaithful.
 47. That helper, who knew his boss’s will, and didn’t prepare, nor do what he wanted, will be beaten with a lot stripes,
 48. but he who didn’t get it, and did things worthy of stripes, will be beaten with not much stripes. To whomever much is given, of him will much be required; and to whom much was entrusted, of him more will be asked.
 49. “I came to throw fire on the earth. I wish it were already kindled.
 50. But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how distressed I am until it is accomplished!
 51. Do ya think that I have come through to hook it up peace in the earth? I tell ya, no, but rather division.
 52. For from now on, there will be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three.
 53. They will be divided, father against son, and son against father; mother against daughter, and daughter against her mother; mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.”
 54. He said to the multitudes also, “When ya check it out a cloud rising from the west, immediately ya say, ‘A shower is coming,’ and so it happens.
 55. When a south wind blows, ya say, ‘there will be a scorching heat,’ and it happens.
 56. ya hypocrites! ya get it how to interpret the appearance of the earth and the sky, but how is it that ya don’t interpret this time?
 57. Why don’t ya judge for yourselves what is right?
 58. For when ya are going with your adversary before the magistrate, try diligently on the way to be released from him, lest perhaps he drag ya to the judge, and the judge deliver ya to the officer, and the officer throw ya into prison.
 59. I tell ya, ya will by no means get out of there, until ya have paid the hella last penny.”
