# Luke Chapter 5

  1. now it happened, while the multitude pressed on him and heard the word of God, that he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret.
  2. He checked out two boats standing by the lake, but the fishermen had gone out of them, and were washing their nets.
  3. He entered into one of the boats, which was Simon’s, and asked him to put out a little from the land. He sat down and taught the multitudes from the boat.
  4. When he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, “Put out into the deep, and let down your nets for a catch.”
  5. Simon answered him, “boss, we worked all night, and took nothing; but at your word I will let down the net.”
  6. When they had done this, they caught a major multitude of fish, and their net was breaking.
  7. They beckoned to their partners in the other boat, that they should come through and help out them. They came, and filled both boats, so that they began to sink.
  8. But Simon Peter, when he checked out it, fell down at Jesus’ knees, saying, “Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, boss.”
  9. For he was amazed, and all who were with him, at the catch of fish which they had caught;
 10. and so also were James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. Jesus said to Simon, “Don’t be scared. From now on you will be catching people alive.”
 11. When they had brought their boats to land, they left everything, and followed him.
 12. It happened, while he was in one of the cities, check this out, there was a man full of leprosy. When he checked out Jesus, he fell on his face, and begged him, saying, “boss, if you want to, you can create me clean.”
 13. He stretched out his hand, and touched him, saying, “I want to. Be made clean.” Immediately the leprosy left him.
 14. He commanded him to tell no one, “But slide your way, and show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing according to what Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.”
 15. But the report concerning him spread much more, and major multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their infirmities.
 16. But he withdrew himself into the desert, and prayed.
 17. It happened on one of those days, that he was teaching; and there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by, who had come through out of every village of Galilee, Judea, and Jerusalem. The power of the boss was with him to heal them.
 18. check this out, men brought a paralyzed man on a cot, and they sought to bring him in to lay before Jesus.
 19. Not finding a way to bring him in cuz of the multitude, they went up to the housetop, and let him down through the tiles with his cot into the midst before Jesus.
 20. Seeing their trusting the process, he said to him, “Man, your sins are forgiven you.”
 21. The scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, “Who is this that speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone?”
 22. But Jesus, perceiving their thoughts, answered them, “Why are you reasoning so in your hearts?
 23. Which is easier to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven you;’ or to say, ‘Arise and walk?’
 24. But that you may get it that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins” (he said to the paralyzed man), “I tell you, arise, and grab up your cot, and slide to your house.”
 25. Immediately he rose up before them, and took up that which he was laying on, and departed to his house, glorifying God.
 26. Amazement took hold on all, and they glorified God. They were filled with fear, saying, “We have seen strange things today.”
 27. After these things he went out, and checked out a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax office, and said to him, “roll with me!”
 28. He left everything, and rose up and followed him.
 29. Levi made a major feast for him in his house. there was a major crowd of tax collectors and others who were reclining with them.
 30. Their scribes and the Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, “Why do you eat and drink with the tax collectors and sinners?”
 31. Jesus answered them, “Those who are healthy have no need for a physician, but those who are sick do.
 32. I have not come through to call the doing what's right, but sinners to repentance.”
 33. They said to him, “Why do John’s disciples a lot fast and pray, likewise also the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink?”
 34. He said to them, “Can you create the friends of the bridegroom fast, while the bridegroom is with them?
 35. But the days will come through when the bridegroom will be taken away from them. then they will fast in those days.”
 36. He also told a parable to them. “No one puts a piece from a new garment on an old garment, or else he will tear the new, and also the piece from the new will not match the old.
 37. No one puts new wine into old wineskins, or else the new wine will burst the skins, and it will be spilled, and the skins will be destroyed.
 38. But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved.
 39. No man having drunk old wine immediately desires new, for he says, ‘The old is better.’”
