# Luke Chapter 16

  1. He also said to his disciples, “there was a certain stacked man who had a manager. An accusation was made to him that this man was wasting his possessions.
  2. He called him, and said to him, ‘What is this that I hear about ya? hook it up an accounting of your management, for ya can no longer be manager.’
  3. “The manager said within himself, ‘What will I do, seeing that my boss is taking away the management position from me? I don’t have strength to dig. I am ashamed to beg.
  4. I get it what I will do, so that when I am removed from management, they may receive me into their houses.’
  5. Calling each one of his boss’s debtors to him, he said to the first, ‘How much do ya owe to my boss?’
  6. He said, ‘A hundred batos of oil.’ He said to him, ‘grab your bill, and sit down quickly and write fifty.’
  7. then he said to another, ‘How much do ya owe?’ He said, ‘A hundred cors of wheat.’ He said to him, ‘grab your bill, and write eighty.’
  8. “His boss commended the dishonest manager cuz he had done wisely, for the children of this world are, in their own generation, wiser than the children of the light.
  9. I tell ya, create for yourselves friends by means of unrighteous mammon, so that when ya fail, they may receive ya into the eternal tents.
 10. He who is faithful in a hella little is faithful also in much. He who is dishonest in a hella little is also dishonest in much.
 11. If so basically ya have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches?
 12. If ya have not been faithful in that which is another’s, who will hook it up ya that which is your own?
 13. No helper can help out out two masters, for either he will can't stand the one, and show love the other; or else he will hold to one, and despise the other. ya aren’t able to help out out God and mammon.”
 14. The Pharisees, who were lovers of money, also heard all these things, and they scoffed at him.
 15. He said to them, “ya are those who justify yourselves in the sight of men, but God knows your hearts. For that which is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God.
 16. The law and the prophets were until John. From that time the fire News of the God's squad of God is preached, and everyone is forcing his way into it.
 17. But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, than for one tiny stroke of a pen in the law to fall.
 18. Everyone who divorces his wife, and marries another, commits adultery. He who marries one who is divorced from a husband commits adultery.
 19. “now there was a certain stacked man, and he was clothed in purple and fine linen, living in luxury every day.
 20. A certain beggar, named Lazarus, was laid at his gate, full of sores,
 21. and desiring to be fed with the crumbs that fell from the stacked man’s table. Yes, even the dogs came and licked his sores.
 22. It happened that the beggar died, and that he was carried away by the angels to Abraham’s bosom. The stacked man also died, and was buried.
 23. In Hades, he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and saw Abraham far off, and Lazarus at his bosom.
 24. He cried and said, ‘Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue! For I am in anguish in this flame.’
 25. “But Abraham said, ‘Son, remember that ya, in your lifetime, received your fire things, and Lazarus, in the same way, trash things. But now here he is comforted and ya are in anguish.
 26. Besides all this, between us and ya there is a major gulf fixed, that those who want to pass from here to ya aren't able, and that none may cross over from there to us.’
 27. “He said, ‘I ask ya so basically, father, that ya would send him to my father’s house;
 28. for I have five brothers, that he may testify to them, so they won’t also come through into this place of torment.’
 29. “But Abraham said to him, ‘They have Moses and the prophets. Let them listen up to them.’
 30. “He said, ‘No, father Abraham, but if one goes to them from the dead, they will turn it around.’
 31. “He said to him, ‘If they don’t listen up to Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded if one rises from the dead.’”
