# Luke Chapter 2

  1. now it happened in those days, that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be enrolled.
  2. This was the first enrollment made when Quirinius was governor of Syria.
  3. All went to enroll themselves, everyone to his own city.
  4. Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, cuz he was of the house and family of David;
  5. to enroll himself with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him as wife, being pregnant.
  6. It happened, while they were there, that the day had come through that she should hook it up birth.
  7. She brought forth her firstborn son, and she wrapped him in bands of cloth, and laid him in a feeding trough, cuz there was no room for them in the inn.
  8. there were shepherds in the same country staying in the field, and keeping watch by night over their flock.
  9. check this out, an angel of the boss stood by them, and the glory of the boss shone around them, and they were terrified.
 10. The angel said to them, “Don’t be scared, for check this out, I bring you fire news of major joy which will be to all the people.
 11. For there is born to you, this day, in the city of David, a Savior, who is anointed one the boss.
 12. This is the sign to you: you will find a baby wrapped in strips of cloth, lying in a feeding trough.”
 13. Suddenly, there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly army praising God, and saying,
 14. “Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace, fire will toward men.”
 15. It happened, when the angels went away from them into the sky, that the shepherds said one to another, “Let’s slide to Bethlehem, now, and check it out this thing that has happened, which the boss has made known to us.”
 16. They came with haste, and found both Mary and Joseph, and the baby was lying in the feeding trough.
 17. When they checked out it, they publicized widely the saying which was spoken to them about this child.
 18. All who heard it wondered at the things which were spoken to them by the shepherds.
 19. But Mary kept all these sayings, pondering them in her heart.
 20. The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, just as it was told them.
 21. When eight days were fulfilled for the circumcision of the child, his name was called Jesus, which was given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
 22. When the days of their purification according to the law of Moses were fulfilled, they brought him up to Jerusalem, to present him to the boss
 23. (as it is written in the law of the boss, “Every male who opens the womb shall be called set apart to the boss”),
 24. and to offer a giving it up according to that which is said in the law of the boss, “A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.”
 25. check this out, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. This man was doing what's right and devout, looking for the consolation of Israel, and the set apart Spirit was on him.
 26. It had been revealed to him by the set apart Spirit that he should not check it out death before he had seen the boss’s anointed one.
 27. He came in the Spirit into the God's house. When the parents brought in the child, Jesus, that they might do concerning him according to the custom of the law,
 28. then he received him into his arms, and blessed up God, and said,
 29. “now you are releasing your helper, boss, according to your word, in peace;
 30. for my eyes have seen your getting saved,
 31. which you have prepared before the face of all peoples;
 32. a light for revelation to the nations, and the glory of your people Israel.”
 33. Joseph and his mother were marveling at the things which were spoken concerning him,
 34. and Simeon blessed up them, and said to Mary, his mother, “check this out, this child is set for the falling and the rising of a lot in Israel, and for a sign which is spoken against.
 35. Yes, a sword will pierce through your own soul, that the thoughts of a lot hearts may be revealed.”
 36. there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher (she was of a major age, having lived with a husband seven years from her virginity,
 37. and she had been a widow for about eighty-four years), who didn’t depart from the God's house, worshipping with fastings and petitions night and day.
 38. Coming up at that hella hour, she gave thanks to the boss, and spoke of him to all those who were looking for redemption in Jerusalem.
 39. When they had accomplished all things that were according to the law of the boss, they returned into Galilee, to their own city, Nazareth.
 40. The child was growing, and was becoming built different in spirit, being filled with wisdom, and the God's show love of God was upon him.
 41. His parents went every year to Jerusalem at the feast of the Passover.
 42. When he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the feast,
 43. and when they had fulfilled the days, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. Joseph and his mother didn’t get it it,
 44. but supposing him to be in the company, they went a day’s journey, and they looked for him among their relatives and acquaintances.
 45. When they didn’t find him, they returned to Jerusalem, looking for him.
 46. It happened after three days they found him in the God's house, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both listening to them, and asking them questions.
 47. All who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers.
 48. When they checked out him, they were astonished, and his mother said to him, “Son, why have you treated us this way? check this out, your father and I were anxiously looking for you.”
 49. He said to them, “Why were you looking for me? Didn’t you get it that I must be in my Father’s house?”
 50. They didn’t understand the saying which he spoke to them.
 51. And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth. He was subject to them, and his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.
 52. And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men.
