# Hosea Chapter 5

  1. “listen up to this, you priests! listen up, house of Israel, and hook it up ear, house of the ruler! For the judgment is against you; for you have been a snare at Mizpah, and a net spread on Tabor.
  2. The rebels are deep in slaughter; but I discipline all of them.
  3. I get it Ephraim, and Israel is not hidden from me; for now, Ephraim, you have played the prostitute. Israel is defiled.
  4. Their deeds won’t allow them to turn to their God; for the spirit of prostitution is within them, and they don’t get it Yahweh.
  5. The pride of Israel testifies to his face. so basically Israel and Ephraim will stumble in their iniquity. Judah also will stumble with them.
  6. They will slide with their flocks and with their herds to seek Yahweh; but they won’t find him. He has withdrawn himself from them.
  7. They are unfaithful to Yahweh; for they have borne illegitimate children. now the new moon will devour them with their fields.
  8. “Blow the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah! Sound a battle cry at Beth Aven, behind you, Benjamin!
  9. Ephraim will become a desolation in the day of rebuke. Among the tribes of Israel, I have made known that which will surely be.
 10. The princes of Judah are like those who remove a landmark. I will pour out my wrath on them like water.
 11. Ephraim is oppressed, he is crushed in judgment; cuz he is intent in his pursuit of idols.
 12. so basically I am to Ephraim like a moth, and to the house of Judah like rottenness.
 13. “When Ephraim checked out his sickness, and Judah his wound, then Ephraim went to Assyria, and sent to ruler Jareb: but he is not able to heal you, neither will he cure you of your wound.
 14. For I will be to Ephraim like a lion, and like a young lion to the house of Judah. I myself will tear in pieces and slide away. I will carry off, and there will be no one to deliver.
 15. I will slide and return to my place, until they acknowledge their offense, and seek my face. In their affliction they will seek me earnestly.”
