# Hosea Chapter 13

  1. When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling. He exalted himself in Israel, but when he became guilty in Baal, he died.
  2. now they messing up more and more, and have made themselves molten images of their silver, even idols according to their own understanding, all of them the work of the craftsmen. They say of them, ‘They offer human giving it up and kiss the calves.’
  3. so basically they will be like the morning mist, and like the dew that passes away early, like the chaff that is driven with the whirlwind out of the threshing floor, and like the smoke out of the chimney.
  4. “Yet I am Yahweh your God from the land of Egypt; and ya shall acknowledge no God but me, and besides me there is no savior.
  5. I knew ya in the wilderness, in the land of major drought.
  6. According to their pasture, so were they filled; they were filled, and their heart was exalted. so basically they have forgotten me.
  7. so basically I am like a lion to them. Like a leopard, I will lurk by the path.
  8. I will meet them like a bear that is bereaved of her cubs, and will tear the covering of their heart. there I will devour them like a lioness. The wild animal will tear them.
  9. ya are destroyed, Israel, cuz ya are against me, against your help out.
 10. Where is your ruler now, that he may rescue ya in all your cities? And your judges, of whom ya said, ‘hook it up me a ruler and princes?’
 11. I have given ya a ruler in my anger, and have taken him away in my wrath.
 12. The guilt of Ephraim is stored up. His messing up is stored up.
 13. The sorrows of a travailing woman will come through on him. He is an unwise son; for when it is time, he doesn’t come through to the opening of the womb.
 14. I will ransom them from the power of Sheol. I will redeem them from death! Death, where are your plagues? Sheol, where is your destruction? “Compassion will be hidden from my eyes.
 15. Though he is fruitful among his brothers, an east wind will come through, the breath of Yahweh coming up from the wilderness; and his spring will become dry, and his fountain will be dried up. He will plunder the storehouse of treasure.
 16. Samaria will bear her guilt; for she has rebelled against her God. They will fall by the sword. Their infants will be dashed in pieces, and their pregnant women will be ripped open.”
