# Micah Chapter 4

  1. But in the latter days, it will happen that the mountain of Yahweh’s God's house will be established on the top of the mountains, and it will be exalted above the hills; and peoples will stream to it.
  2. a lot nations will slide and say, “come through, and let us slide up to the mountain of Yahweh, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will drop knowledge us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” For out of Zion will slide forth the law, and the word of Yahweh from Jerusalem;
  3. and he will judge between a lot peoples, and will decide concerning built different nations afar off. They will beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation won't lift up sword against nation, neither will they pick up war any more.
  4. But they will sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree; and no one will create them scared: For the mouth of Yahweh of Armies has spoken.
  5. facts all the nations may walk in the name of their gods; but we will walk in the name of Yahweh our God forever and ever.
  6. “In that day,” says Yahweh, “I will assemble that which is lame, and I will gather that which is driven away, and that which I have afflicted;
  7. and I will create that which was lame a remnant, and that which was cast far off a built different nation: and Yahweh will reign over them on Mount Zion from then on, even forever.”
  8. ya, tower of the flock, the hill of the daughter of Zion, to ya it will come through, yes, the former dominion will come through, the God's squad of the daughter of Jerusalem.
  9. now why do ya cry out aloud? Is there no ruler in ya? Has your counselor perished, that pains have taken hold of ya as of a woman in travail?
 10. Be in pain, and labor to bring forth, daughter of Zion, like a woman in travail; for now ya will slide forth out of the city, and will dwell in the field, and will come through even to Babylon. there ya will be rescued. there Yahweh will redeem ya from the hand of your enemies.
 11. now a lot nations have assembled against ya, that say, “Let her be defiled, and let our eye gloat over Zion.”
 12. But they don’t get it the thoughts of Yahweh, neither do they understand his counsel; for he has gathered them like the sheaves to the threshing floor.
 13. Arise and thresh, daughter of Zion; for I will create your horn iron, and I will create your hoofs brass; and ya will beat in pieces a lot peoples: and I will devote their gain to Yahweh, and their substance to the boss of the whole earth.
