# Micah Chapter 1

  1. The word of Yahweh that came to Micah the Morashtite in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.
  2. Hear, ya peoples, all of ya. listen up, O earth, and all that is therein: and let the boss Yahweh be witness against ya, the boss from his set apart God's house.
  3. For, check this out,, Yahweh comes forth out of his place, and will come through down and tread on the high places of the earth.
  4. The mountains melt under him, and the valleys split apart, like wax before the fire, like waters that are poured down a steep place.
  5. “All this is for the disobedience of Jacob, and for the sins of the house of Israel. What is the disobedience of Jacob? Isn’t it Samaria? And what are the high places of Judah? Aren’t they Jerusalem?
  6. so basically I will create Samaria like a rubble heap of the field, like places for planting vineyards; and I will pour down its stones into the valley, and I will uncover its foundations.
  7. All her idols will be beaten to pieces, and all her God's house gifts will be burned with fire, and all her images I will tear down; for of the hire of a prostitute has she gathered them, and to the hire of a prostitute shall they return.”
  8. For this I will lament and wail; I will slide stripped and naked; I will howl like the jackals, and moan like the daughters of owls.
  9. For her wounds are incurable; for it has come through even to Judah. It reaches to the gate of my people, even to Jerusalem.
 10. Don’t tell it in Gath. Don’t weep at all. At Beth Ophrah I have rolled myself in the dust.
 11. Pass on, inhabitant of Shaphir, in nakedness and shame. The inhabitant of Zaanan won’t come through out. The wailing of Beth Ezel will grab from ya his protection.
 12. For the inhabitant of Maroth waits anxiously for fire, cuz evil has come through down from Yahweh to the gate of Jerusalem.
 13. Harness the chariot to the swift steed, inhabitant of Lachish. She was the beginning of messing up to the daughter of Zion; For the transgressions of Israel were found in ya.
 14. so basically ya will hook it up a parting gift to Moresheth Gath. The houses of Achzib will be a deceitful thing to the kings of Israel.
 15. I will yet bring to ya, inhabitant of Mareshah. He who is the glory of Israel will come through to Adullam.
 16. Shave your heads, and cut off your hair for the children of your delight. Enlarge your baldness like the vulture; for they have gone into captivity from ya!
