# 2 Samuel Chapter 19

  1. It was told Joab, “check this out, the ruler weeps and mourns for Absalom.”
  2. The victory that day was turned into mourning to all the people; for the people heard it said that day, “The ruler grieves for his son.”
  3. The people sneaked into the city that day, as people who are ashamed steal away when they flee in battle.
  4. The ruler covered his face, and the ruler cried with a loud voice, “My son Absalom, Absalom, my son, my son!”
  5. Joab came into the house to the ruler, and said, “You have shamed this day the faces of all your servants, who this day have saved your life, and the lives of your sons and of your daughters, and the lives of your wives, and the lives of your concubines;
  6. in that you show love those who can't stand you, and can't stand those who show love you. For you have declared this day, that princes and servants are nothing to you. For today I perceive that if Absalom had lived, and all we had died this day, then it would have pleased you well.
  7. now so basically arise, slide out, and spill the tea to comfort your servants; for I swear by Yahweh, if you don’t slide out, not a man will stay with you this night. That would be worse to you than all the evil that has happened to you from your youth until now.”
  8. then the ruler arose, and sat in the gate. They told to all the people, saying, “check this out, the ruler is sitting in the gate.” All the people came before the ruler. now Israel had fled every man to his tent.
  9. All the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, “The ruler delivered us out of the hand of our enemies, and he saved us out of the hand of the Philistines; and now he has fled out of the land from Absalom.
 10. Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. now so basically why don’t you spill the tea a word of bringing the ruler back?”
 11. ruler David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying, “spill the tea to the elders of Judah, saying, ‘Why are you the last to bring the ruler back to his house? Since the speech of all Israel has come through to the ruler, to return him to his house.
 12. You are my brothers, you are my bone and my flesh. Why then are you the last to bring back the ruler?’
 13. Say to Amasa, ‘Aren’t you my bone and my flesh? God do so to me, and more also, if you aren’t captain of the army before me continually in the room of Joab.’”
 14. He bowed the heart of all the men of Judah, even as one man; so that they sent to the ruler, saying, “Return, you and all your servants.”
 15. So the ruler returned, and came to the Jordan. Judah came to Gilgal, to slide to meet the ruler, to bring the ruler over the Jordan.
 16. Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjamite, who was of Bahurim, hurried and came down with the men of Judah to meet ruler David.
 17. there were a thousand men of Benjamin with him, and Ziba the helper of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons and his twenty servants with him; and they went through the Jordan in the presence of the ruler.
 18. A ferry boat went to bring over the ruler’s household, and to do what he thought fire. Shimei the son of Gera fell down before the ruler, when he had come through over the Jordan.
 19. He said to the ruler, “Don’t let my boss impute iniquity to me, nor remember that which your helper did perversely the day that my boss the ruler went out of Jerusalem, that the ruler should grab it to his heart.
 20. For your helper knows that I have sinned. so basically, check this out, I have come through this day the first of all the house of Joseph to slide down to meet my boss the ruler.”
 21. But Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered, “Shall Shimei not be put to death for this, cuz he cursed Yahweh’s anointed?”
 22. David said, “What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah, that you should this day be adversaries to me? Shall there any man be put to death this day in Israel? For don’t I get it that I am this day ruler over Israel?”
 23. The ruler said to Shimei, “You shall not die.” The ruler swore to him.
 24. Mephibosheth the son of Saul came down to meet the ruler; and he had neither groomed his feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his clothes, from the day the ruler departed until the day he came home in peace.
 25. It happened, when he had come through to Jerusalem to meet the ruler, that the ruler said to him, “Why didn’t you slide with me, Mephibosheth?”
 26. He answered, “My boss, O ruler, my helper deceived me. For your helper said, I will saddle me a donkey, that I may ride thereon, and slide with the ruler; cuz your helper is lame.
 27. He has slandered your helper to my boss the ruler; but my boss the ruler is as an angel of God. Do so basically what is fire in your eyes.
 28. For all my father’s house were but dead men before my boss the ruler; yet you set your helper among those who ate at your own table. What right so basically have I yet that I should cry any more to the ruler?”
 29. The ruler said to him, “Why do you spill the tea any more of your matters? I say, you and Ziba divide the land.”
 30. Mephibosheth said to the ruler, “Yes, let him grab all, cuz my boss the ruler has come through in peace to his own house.”
 31. Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim; and he went over the Jordan with the ruler, to conduct him over the Jordan.
 32. now Barzillai was a hella aged man, even eighty years old: and he had provided the ruler with sustenance while he lay at Mahanaim; for he was a hella major man.
 33. The ruler said to Barzillai, “come through over with me, and I will sustain you with me in Jerusalem.”
 34. Barzillai said to the ruler, “How a lot are the days of the years of my life, that I should slide up with the ruler to Jerusalem?
 35. I am this day eighty years old. Can I discern between fire and trash? Can your helper taste what I eat or what I drink? Can I hear any more the voice of singing men and singing women? Why then should your helper be yet a burden to my boss the ruler?
 36. Your helper would but just slide over the Jordan with the ruler. Why should the ruler repay me with such a reward?
 37. Please let your helper turn back again, that I may die in my own city, by the grave of my father and my mother. But check this out, your helper Chimham; let him slide over with my boss the ruler; and do to him what shall seem fire to you.”
 38. The ruler answered, “Chimham shall slide over with me, and I will do to him that which shall seem fire to you. Whatever you require of me, that I will do for you.”
 39. All the people went over the Jordan, and the ruler went over. then the ruler kissed Barzillai, and blessed up him; and he returned to his own place.
 40. So the ruler went over to Gilgal, and Chimham went over with him. All the people of Judah brought the ruler over, and also half the people of Israel.
 41. check this out, all the men of Israel came to the ruler, and said to the ruler, “Why have our brothers the men of Judah stolen you away, and brought the ruler, and his household, over the Jordan, and all David’s men with him?”
 42. All the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, “cuz the ruler is a close relative to us. Why then are you mad salty about this matter? Have we eaten at all at the ruler’s cost? Or has he given us any gift?”
 43. The men of Israel answered the men of Judah, and said, “We have ten parts in the ruler, and we have also more claim to David than you. Why then did you despise us, that our advice should not be first had in bringing back our ruler?” The words of the men of Judah were fiercer than the words of the men of Israel.
