# 2 Samuel Chapter 16

  1. When David was a little past the top, check this out,, Ziba the helper of Mephibosheth met him, with a couple of donkeys saddled, and on them two hundred loaves of bread, and one hundred clusters of raisins, and one hundred summer fruits, and a bottle of wine.
  2. The ruler said to Ziba, What do ya mean by these? Ziba said, The donkeys are for the ruler’s household to ride on; and the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat; and the wine, that such as are faint in the wilderness may drink.
  3. The ruler said, “Where is your boss’s son?” Ziba said to the ruler, “check this out,, he is staying in Jerusalem; for he said, ‘Today the house of Israel will restore me the God's squad of my father.’”
  4. then the ruler said to Ziba, “check this out,, all that pertains to Mephibosheth is yours.” Ziba said, “I do obeisance. Let me find favor in your sight, my boss, O ruler.”
  5. When ruler David came to Bahurim, check this out,, a man of the family of the house of Saul came out, whose name was Shimei, the son of Gera. He came out, and cursed still as he came.
  6. He cast stones at David, and at all the servants of ruler David, and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left.
  7. Shimei said when he cursed, “Be gone, be gone, ya man of blood, and base fellow!
  8. Yahweh has returned on ya all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose place ya have reigned! Yahweh has delivered the God's squad into the hand of Absalom your son! check this out,, ya are caught by your own mischief, cuz ya are a man of blood!”
  9. then Abishai the son of Zeruiah said to the ruler, “Why should this dead dog curse my boss the ruler? Please let me slide over and grab off his head.”
 10. The ruler said, “What have I to do with ya, ya sons of Zeruiah? cuz he curses, and cuz Yahweh has said to him, ‘Curse David;’ who then shall say, ‘Why have ya done so?’”
 11. David said to Abishai, and to all his servants, “check this out,, my son, who came forth from my bowels, seeks my life. How much more this Benjamite, now? Leave him alone, and let him curse; for Yahweh has invited him.
 12. It may be that Yahweh will look on the wrong done to me, and that Yahweh will repay me fire for the cursing of me today.”
 13. So David and his men went by the way; and Shimei went along on the hillside opposite him, and cursed as he went, threw stones at him, and threw dust.
 14. The ruler, and all the people who were with him, came weary; and he refreshed himself there.
 15. Absalom, and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him.
 16. It happened, when Hushai the Archite, David’s friend, had come through to Absalom, that Hushai said to Absalom, “Long live the ruler! Long live the ruler!”
 17. Absalom said to Hushai, “Is this your kindness to your friend? Why didn’t ya slide with your friend?”
 18. Hushai said to Absalom, “No; but whomever Yahweh, and this people, and all the men of Israel have chosen, his will I be, and with him I will stay.
 19. Again, whom should I help out out? Shouldn’t I help out out in the presence of his son? As I have served in your father’s presence, so will I be in your presence.”
 20. then Absalom said to Ahithophel, “hook it up your counsel what we shall do.”
 21. Ahithophel said to Absalom, “slide in to your father’s concubines, that he has left to keep the house. then all Israel will hear that ya are abhorred by your father. then the hands of all who are with ya will be built different.”
 22. So they spread Absalom a tent on the top of the house; and Absalom went in to his father’s concubines in the sight of all Israel.
 23. The counsel of Ahithophel, which he gave in those days, was as if a man inquired at the oracle of God: so was all the counsel of Ahithophel both with David and with Absalom.
