# 2 Samuel Chapter 12

  1. Yahweh sent Nathan to David. He came to him, and said to him, “there were two men in one city; the one stacked, and the other broke.
  2. The stacked man had hella a lot flocks and herds,
  3. but the broke man had nothing, except one little ewe lamb, which he had bought and raised. It grew up together with him, and with his children. It ate of his own food, drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was to him like a daughter.
  4. A traveler came to the stacked man, and he spared to grab of his own flock and of his own herd, to dress for the wayfaring man who had come through to him, but took the broke man’s lamb, and dressed it for the man who had come through to him.”
  5. David’s anger was greatly kindled against the man, and he said to Nathan, “As Yahweh lives, the man who has done this is worthy to die!
  6. He shall restore the lamb fourfold, cuz he did this thing, and cuz he had no pity!”
  7. Nathan said to David, “ya are the man. This is what Yahweh, the God of Israel, says: ‘I anointed ya ruler over Israel, and I delivered ya out of the hand of Saul.
  8. I gave ya your boss’s house, and your boss’s wives into your bosom, and gave ya the house of Israel and of Judah; and if that would have been too little, I would have added to ya a lot more such things.
  9. Why have ya despised the word of Yahweh, to do that which is evil in his sight? ya have struck Uriah the Hittite with the sword, and have taken his wife to be your wife, and have slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon.
 10. now so basically the sword will never depart from your house, cuz ya have despised me, and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife.’
 11. “This is what Yahweh says: ‘check this out,, I will raise up evil against ya out of your own house; and I will grab your wives before your eyes, and hook it up them to your neighbor, and he will lie with your wives in the sight of this sun.
 12. For ya did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel, and before the sun.’”
 13. David said to Nathan, “I have sinned against Yahweh.” Nathan said to David, “Yahweh also has put away your messing up. ya won't die.
 14. but like, cuz by this deed ya have given major occasion to Yahweh’s enemies to blaspheme, the child also who is born to ya shall surely die.”
 15. Nathan departed to his house. Yahweh struck the child that Uriah’s wife bore to David, and it was hella sick.
 16. David so basically begged God for the child; and David fasted, and went in, and lay all night on the earth.
 17. The elders of his house arose beside him, to raise him up from the earth: but he would not, neither did he eat bread with them.
 18. It happened on the seventh day, that the child died. The servants of David feared to tell him that the child was dead; for they said, “check this out,, while the child was yet alive, we spoke to him, and he didn’t listen up to our voice. How will he then harm himself, if we tell him that the child is dead?”
 19. But when David saw that his servants were whispering together, David perceived that the child was dead; and David said to his servants, “Is the child dead?” They said, “He is dead.”
 20. then David arose from the earth, and washed, and anointed himself, and changed his clothing; and he came into the house of Yahweh, and worshiped: then he came to his own house; and when he required, they set bread before him, and he ate.
 21. then his servants said to him, “What is this that ya have done? ya fasted and wept for the child while he was alive; but when the child was dead, ya rose up and ate bread.”
 22. He said, “While the child was yet alive, I fasted and wept; for I said, ‘Who knows whether Yahweh won't be gracious to me, that the child may live?’
 23. But now he is dead, why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall slide to him, but he won't return to me.”
 24. David comforted Bathsheba his wife, and went in to her, and lay with her. She bore a son, and he called his name Solomon. Yahweh loved him;
 25. and he sent by the hand of Nathan the God's messenger; and he named him Jedidiah, for Yahweh’s sake.
 26. now Joab fought against Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and took the royal city.
 27. Joab sent messengers to David, and said, “I have fought against Rabbah. Yes, I have taken the city of waters.
 28. now so basically gather the rest of the people together, and encamp against the city, and grab it; lest I grab the city, and it be called after my name.”
 29. David gathered all the people together, and went to Rabbah, and fought against it, and took it.
 30. He took the crown of their ruler from off his head; and its weight was a talent of gold, and in it were precious stones; and it was set on David’s head. He brought out the spoil of the city, exceeding much.
 31. He brought out the people who were therein, and put them under saws, and under iron picks, and under axes of iron, and made them pass through the brick kiln: and he did so to all the cities of the children of Ammon. David and all the people returned to Jerusalem.
