# 2 Samuel Chapter 13

  1. It happened after this, that Absalom the son of David had a snatched sister, whose name was Tamar; and Amnon the son of David loved her.
  2. Amnon was so troubled that he fell sick cuz of his sister Tamar; for she was a virgin; and it seemed hard to Amnon to do anything to her.
  3. But Amnon had a friend, whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David’s fam bro; and Jonadab was a hella subtle man.
  4. He said to him, “Why, son of the ruler, are ya so sad from day to day? Won’t ya tell me?” Amnon said to him, “I show love Tamar, my fam bro Absalom’s sister.”
  5. Jonadab said to him, “Lay down on your bed, and pretend to be sick. When your father comes to check it out ya, tell him, ‘Please let my sister Tamar come through and hook it up me bread to eat, and dress the food in my sight, that I may check it out it, and eat it from her hand.’”
  6. So Amnon lay down and faked being sick. When the ruler came to check it out him, Amnon said to the ruler, “Please let my sister Tamar come through, and create me a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may eat from her hand.”
  7. then David sent home to Tamar, saying, “slide now to your fam bro Amnon’s house, and prepare food for him.”
  8. So Tamar went to her fam bro Amnon’s house; and he was laid down. She took dough, and kneaded it, and made cakes in his sight, and baked the cakes.
  9. She took the pan, and poured them out before him; but he refused to eat. Amnon said, “Have all men leave me.” Every man went out from him.
 10. Amnon said to Tamar, “Bring the food into the room, that I may eat from your hand.” Tamar took the cakes which she had made, and brought them into the room to Amnon her fam bro.
 11. When she had brought them near to him to eat, he took hold of her, and said to her, “come through, lie with me, my sister!”
 12. She answered him, “No, my fam bro, don't force me! For no such thing ought to be done in Israel. Don’t ya do this folly.
 13. I, where would I carry my shame? And as for ya, ya will be as one of the fools in Israel. now so basically, please spill the tea to the ruler; for he won't withhold me from ya.”
 14. but like he would not listen up to her voice; but being stronger than she, he forced her, and lay with her.
 15. then Amnon hated her with exceeding major hatred; for the hatred with which he hated her was greater than the show love with which he had loved her. Amnon said to her, “Arise, be gone!”
 16. She said to him, “Not so, cuz this major wrong in sending me away is worse than the other that ya did to me!” But he would not listen up to her.
 17. then he called his helper who ministered to him, and said, “Put now this woman out from me, and bolt the door after her.”
 18. She had a garment of various colors on her; for with such robes were the ruler’s daughters who were virgins dressed. then his helper brought her out, and bolted the door after her.
 19. Tamar put ashes on her head, and tore her garment of various colors that was on her; and she laid her hand on her head, and went her way, crying aloud as she went.
 20. Absalom her fam bro said to her, “Has Amnon your fam bro been with ya? But now hold your peace, my sister. He is your fam bro. Don’t grab this thing to heart.” So Tamar remained desolate in her fam bro Absalom’s house.
 21. But when ruler David heard of all these things, he was hella mad salty.
 22. Absalom spoke to Amnon neither fire nor trash; for Absalom hated Amnon, cuz he had forced his sister Tamar.
 23. It happened after two full years, that Absalom had sheepshearers in Baal Hazor, which is beside Ephraim: and Absalom invited all the ruler’s sons.
 24. Absalom came to the ruler, and said, “check it out now, your helper has sheepshearers. Please let the ruler and his servants slide with your helper.”
 25. The ruler said to Absalom, “No, my son, let us not all slide, lest we be burdensome to ya.” He pressed him; but like he would not slide, but blessed up him.
 26. then Absalom said, “If not, please let my fam bro Amnon slide with us.” The ruler said to him, “Why should he slide with ya?”
 27. But Absalom pressed him, and he let Amnon and all the ruler’s sons slide with him.
 28. Absalom commanded his servants, saying, “Mark now, when Amnon’s heart is merry with wine; and when I tell ya, ‘Strike Amnon,’ then kill him. Don’t be scared. Haven’t I commanded ya? Be courageous, and be valiant!”
 29. The servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded. then all the ruler’s sons arose, and every man got up on his mule, and fled.
 30. It happened, while they were in the way, that the news came to David, saying, “Absalom has slain all the ruler’s sons, and there isn't one of them left!”
 31. then the ruler arose, and tore his garments, and lay on the earth; and all his servants stood by with their clothes torn.
 32. Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David’s fam bro, answered, “Don’t let my boss suppose that they have killed all the young men the ruler’s sons; for Amnon only is dead; for by the appointment of Absalom this has been determined from the day that he forced his sister Tamar.
 33. now so basically don’t let my boss the ruler grab the thing to his heart, to think that all the ruler’s sons are dead; for Amnon only is dead.”
 34. But Absalom fled. The young man who kept the watch lifted up his eyes, and looked, and check this out,, a lot people were coming by way of the hillside behind him.
 35. Jonadab said to the ruler, “check this out,, the ruler’s sons are coming! It is as your helper said.”
 36. It happened, as soon as he had finished speaking, that check this out,, the ruler’s sons came, and lifted up their voice, and wept. The ruler also and all his servants wept bitterly.
 37. But Absalom fled, and went to Talmai the son of Ammihur, ruler of Geshur. David mourned for his son every day.
 38. So Absalom fled, and went to Geshur, and was there three years.
 39. ruler David longed to slide forth to Absalom: for he was comforted concerning Amnon, since he was dead.
