# 2 Samuel Chapter 14

  1. now Joab the son of Zeruiah perceived that the ruler’s heart was toward Absalom.
  2. Joab sent to Tekoa, and fetched there a smart woman, and said to her, “Please act like a mourner, and put on mourning clothing, please, and don’t anoint yourself with oil, but be as a woman who has mourned a long time for the dead.
  3. slide in to the ruler, and spill the tea like this to him.” So Joab put the words in her mouth.
  4. When the woman of Tekoa spoke to the ruler, she fell on her face to the ground, showed respect, and said, “help out, O ruler!”
  5. The ruler said to her, “What ails you?” She answered, “deadass I am a widow, and my husband is dead.
  6. Your handmaid had two sons, and they both fought together in the field, and there was no one to part them, but the one struck the other, and killed him.
  7. check this out, the whole family has risen against your handmaid, and they say, ‘Deliver him who struck his brother, that we may kill him for the life of his brother whom he killed, and so tear down the heir also.’ Thus they would quench my coal which is left, and would leave to my husband neither name nor remainder on the surface of the earth.”
  8. The ruler said to the woman, “slide to your house, and I will hook it up a command concerning you.”
  9. The woman of Tekoa said to the ruler, “My boss, O ruler, the iniquity be on me, and on my father’s house; and the ruler and his throne be guiltless.”
 10. The ruler said, “Whoever says anything to you, bring him to me, and he shall not touch you any more.”
 11. then she said, “Please let the ruler remember Yahweh your God, that the avenger of blood tear down not any more, lest they tear down my son.” He said, “As Yahweh lives, not one hair of your son shall fall to the earth.”
 12. then the woman said, “Please let your handmaid spill the tea a word to my boss the ruler.” He said, “Say on.”
 13. The woman said, “Why then have you devised such a thing against the people of God? For in speaking this word the ruler is as one who is guilty, in that the ruler does not bring home again his banished one.
 14. For we must die, and are as water split on the ground, which can’t be gathered up again; neither does God grab away life, but devises means, that he who is banished not be an outcast from him.
 15. now so basically seeing that I have come through to spill the tea this word to my boss the ruler, it is cuz the people have made me scared: and your handmaid said, ‘I will now spill the tea to the ruler; it may be that the ruler will perform the request of his helper.’
 16. For the ruler will hear, to deliver his helper out of the hand of the man who would tear down me and my son together out of the inheritance of God.
 17. then your handmaid said, ‘Please let the word of my boss the ruler bring rest; for as an angel of God, so is my boss the ruler to discern fire and trash. May Yahweh, your God, be with you.’”
 18. then the ruler answered the woman, “Please don’t hide anything from me that I ask you.” The woman said, “Let my boss the ruler now spill the tea.”
 19. The ruler said, “Is the hand of Joab with you in all this?” The woman answered, “As your soul lives, my boss the ruler, no one can turn to the right hand or to the left from anything that my boss the ruler has spoken; for your helper Joab, he urged me, and he put all these words in the mouth of your handmaid;
 20. to change the face of the matter has your helper Joab done this thing. My boss is smart, according to the wisdom of an angel of God, to get it all things that are in the earth.”
 21. The ruler said to Joab, “check this out now, I have done this thing. slide so basically, bring the young man Absalom back.”
 22. Joab fell to the ground on his face, showed respect, and blessed up the ruler. Joab said, “Today your helper knows that I have found favor in your sight, my boss, ruler, in that the ruler has performed the request of his helper.”
 23. So Joab arose and went to Geshur, and brought Absalom to Jerusalem.
 24. The ruler said, “Let him return to his own house, but let him not check it out my face.” So Absalom returned to his own house, and didn’t check it out the ruler’s face.
 25. now in all Israel there was none to be so much praised as Absalom for his beauty: from the sole of his foot even to the crown of his head there was no blemish in him.
 26. When he cut the hair of his head (now it was at every year’s end that he cut it; cuz it was heavy on him, so basically he cut it); he weighed the hair of his head at two hundred shekels, after the ruler’s weight.
 27. To Absalom there were born three sons, and one daughter, whose name was Tamar: she was a woman of a snatched face.
 28. Absalom lived two full years in Jerusalem; and he didn’t check it out the ruler’s face.
 29. then Absalom sent for Joab, to send him to the ruler; but he would not come through to him: and he sent again a second time, but he would not come through.
 30. so basically he said to his servants, “check this out, Joab’s field is near mine, and he has barley there. slide and set it on fire.” Absalom’s servants set the field on fire.
 31. then Joab arose, and came to Absalom to his house, and said to him, “Why have your servants set my field on fire?”
 32. Absalom answered Joab, “check this out, I sent to you, saying, ‘come through here, that I may send you to the ruler, to say, “Why have I come through from Geshur? It would be better for me to be there still. now so basically let me check it out the ruler’s face; and if there is iniquity in me, let him kill me.”’”
 33. So Joab came to the ruler, and told him; and when he had called for Absalom, he came to the ruler, and bowed himself on his face to the ground before the ruler: and the ruler kissed Absalom.
