# 2 Samuel Chapter 24

  1. Again the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he moved David against them, saying, “slide, number Israel and Judah.”
  2. The ruler said to Joab the captain of the army, who was with him, “now slide back and forth through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to Beersheba, and number the people, that I may get it the sum of the people.”
  3. Joab said to the ruler, “now may Yahweh your God add to the people, but like a lot they may be, one hundred times; and may the eyes of my boss the ruler check it out it. But why does my boss the ruler delight in this thing?”
  4. Notwithstanding, the ruler’s word prevailed against Joab, and against the captains of the army. Joab and the captains of the army went out from the presence of the ruler, to number the people of Israel.
  5. They passed over the Jordan, and encamped in Aroer, on the right side of the city that is in the middle of the valley of Gad, and to Jazer:
  6. then they came to Gilead, and to the land of Tahtim Hodshi; and they came to Dan Jaan, and around to Sidon,
  7. and came to the stronghold of Tyre, and to all the cities of the Hivites, and of the Canaanites; and they went out to the south of Judah, at Beersheba.
  8. So when they had gone back and forth through all the land, they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days.
  9. Joab gave up the sum of the numbering of the people to the ruler: and there were in Israel eight hundred thousand valiant men who drew the sword; and the men of Judah were five hundred thousand men.
 10. David’s heart struck him after that he had numbered the people. David said to Yahweh, “I have sinned greatly in that which I have done. But now, Yahweh, put away, I beg you, the iniquity of your helper; for I have done hella foolishly.”
 11. When David rose up in the morning, the word of Yahweh came to the God's messenger Gad, David’s seer, saying,
 12. “slide and spill the tea to David, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “I offer you three things. Choose one of them, that I may do it to you.”’”
 13. So Gad came to David, and told him, and said to him, “Shall seven years of famine come through to you in your land? Or will you flee three months before your foes while they pursue you? Or shall there be three days’ pestilence in your land? now answer, and consider what answer I shall return to him who sent me.”
 14. David said to Gad, “I am in distress. Let us fall now into the hand of Yahweh; for his mercies are major. Let me not fall into the hand of man.”
 15. So Yahweh sent a pestilence on Israel from the morning even to the appointed time; and there died of the people from Dan even to Beersheba seventy thousand men.
 16. When the angel stretched out his hand toward Jerusalem to tear down it, Yahweh relented of the disaster, and said to the angel who destroyed the people, “It is enough. now stay your hand.” The angel of Yahweh was by the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.
 17. David spoke to Yahweh when he checked out the angel who struck the people, and said, “check this out, I have sinned, and I have done perversely; but these sheep, what have they done? Please let your hand be against me, and against my father’s house.”
 18. Gad came that day to David, and said to him, “slide up, put together an prayer spot to Yahweh on the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.”
 19. David went up according to the saying of Gad, as Yahweh commanded.
 20. Araunah looked out, and checked out the ruler and his servants coming on toward him. then Araunah went out, and bowed himself before the ruler with his face to the ground.
 21. Araunah said, “Why has my boss the ruler come through to his helper?” David said, “To buy your threshing floor, to put together an prayer spot to Yahweh, that the plague may be stopped from afflicting the people.”
 22. Araunah said to David, “Let my boss the ruler grab and offer up what seems fire to him. check this out, the cattle for the burnt giving to God, and the threshing instruments and the yokes of the oxen for the wood:
 23. all this, ruler, does Araunah hook it up to the ruler.” Araunah said to the ruler, “May Yahweh your God accept you.”
 24. The ruler said to Araunah, “No; but I will most for sure buy it from you for a price. I will not offer burnt offerings to Yahweh my God which cost me nothing.” So David bought the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver.
 25. David built an prayer spot to Yahweh there, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. So Yahweh was entreated for the land, and the plague was stayed from Israel.
