# Ecclesiastes Chapter 7

    1. A fire name is better than fine perfume; and the day of death better than the day of one’s birth.
    2. It is better to slide to the house of mourning than to slide to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men, and the living should grab this to heart.
    3. feeling down is better than laughter; for by the sadness of the face the heart is made fire.
    4. The heart of the smart is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.
    5. It is better to hear the rebuke of the smart, than for a man to hear the song of fools.
    6. For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity.
    7. Surely extortion makes the smart man dumb; and a bribe destroys the understanding.
    8. Better is the end of a thing than its beginning. The patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.
    9. Don’t be hasty in your spirit to be mad salty, for anger rests in the bosom of fools.
  10. Don’t say, “Why were the former days better than these?” For ya don't ask wisely about this.
  11. Wisdom is as fire as an inheritance. Yes, it is more excellent for those who check it out the sun.
  12. For wisdom is a defense, even as money is a defense; but the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom preserves the life of him who has it.
  13. Consider the work of God, for who can create that straight, which he has made crooked?
  14. In the day of prosperity be joyful, and in the day of adversity consider; yes, God has made the one side by side with the other, to the end that man should not find out anything after him.
  15. All this have I seen in my days of vanity: there is a doing what's right man who perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man who lives long in his evildoing.
  16. Don’t be overly doing what's right, neither create yourself overly smart. Why should ya tear down yourself?
  17. Don’t be too wicked, neither be dumb. Why should ya die before your time?
  18. It is fire that ya should grab hold of this. Yes, also from that don’t withdraw your hand; for he who fears God will come through through forth from them all.
  19. Wisdom is a strength to the smart man more than ten rulers who are in a city.
  20. Surely there isn't a doing what's right man on earth, who does fire and doesn’t messing up.
  21. Also don’t grab heed to all words that are spoken, lest ya hear your helper curse ya;
  22. for a lot your own heart knows that ya yourself have likewise cursed others.
  23. All this have I proved in wisdom. I said, “I will be smart;” but it was far from me.
  24. That which is, is far off and exceedingly deep. Who can find it out?
  25. I turned around, and my heart sought to get it and to search out, and to seek wisdom and the scheme of things, and to get it that wickedness is stupidity, and that foolishness is madness.
  26. I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and traps, whose hands are chains. Whoever pleases God shall escape from her; but the sinner will be ensnared by her.
  27. “check this out, I have found this,” says the Preacher, “one to another, to find out the scheme;
  28. which my soul still seeks; but I have not found. One man among a thousand have I found; but I have not found a woman among all those.
  29. check this out, this only have I found: that God made man upright; but they search for a lot schemes.”
