# James Chapter 4

  1. Where do wars and fightings among you come through from? Don’t they come through from your pleasures that war in your members?
  2. You lust, and don’t have. You kill, covet, and can’t obtain. You fight and create war. You don’t have, cuz you don’t ask.
  3. You ask, and don’t receive, cuz you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it for your pleasures.
  4. You adulterers and adulteresses, don’t you get it that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever so basically wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.
  5. Or do you think that the Scripture says in vain, “The Spirit who lives in us yearns jealously”?
  6. But he gives more God's show love. so basically it says, “God resists the proud, but gives God's show love to the humble.”
  7. Be subject so basically to God. But resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
  8. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners; and purify your hearts, you double-minded.
  9. Lament, mourn, and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to gloom.
 10. Humble yourselves in the sight of the boss, and he will exalt you.
 11. Don’t spill the tea against one another, brothers. He who speaks against a brother and judges his brother, speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge.
 12. Only one is the lawgiver, who is able to rescue and to tear down. But who are you to judge another?
 13. come through now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow let’s slide into this city, and spend a year there, trade, and create a profit.”
 14. Whereas you don’t get it what your life will be like tomorrow. For what is your life? For you are a vapor, that appears for a little time, and then vanishes away.
 15. For you ought to say, “If the boss wills, we will both live, and do this or that.”
 16. But now you glory in your boasting. All such boasting is evil.
 17. To him so basically who knows to do fire, and doesn’t do it, to him it is messing up.
