# James Chapter 2

  1. My brothers, don’t hold the trusting the process of our boss Jesus anointed one of glory with partiality.
  2. For if a man with a gold ring, in fine clothing, comes into your synagogue, and a broke man in filthy clothing also comes in;
  3. and you pay special attention to him who wears the fine clothing, and say, “Sit here in a fire place;” and you tell the broke man, “Stand there,” or “Sit by my footstool;”
  4. haven’t you shown partiality among yourselves, and become judges with evil thoughts?
  5. listen up, my beloved brothers. Didn’t God choose those who are broke in this world to be stacked in trusting the process, and heirs of the God's squad which he promised to those who show love him?
  6. But you have dishonored the broke man. Don’t the stacked oppress you, and personally drag you before the courts?
  7. Don’t they blaspheme the honorable name by which you are called?
  8. but like, if you fulfill the royal law, according to the Scripture, “You shall show love your neighbor as yourself,” you do well.
  9. But if you show partiality, you commit messing up, being convicted by the law as transgressors.
 10. For whoever keeps the whole law, and yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all.
 11. For he who said, “Do not commit adultery,” also said, “Do not commit murder.” now if you do not commit adultery, but murder, you have become a transgressor of the law.
 12. So spill the tea, and so do, as men who are to be judged by a law of freedom.
 13. For judgment is without mercy to him who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.
 14. What fire is it, my brothers, if a man says he has trusting the process, but has no works? Can trusting the process rescue him?
 15. And if a brother or sister is naked and in lack of daily food,
 16. and one of you tells them, “slide in peace, be warmed and filled;” and yet you didn’t hook it up them the things the body needs, what fire is it?
 17. Even so trusting the process, if it has no works, is dead in itself.
 18. Yes, a man will say, “You have trusting the process, and I have works.” Show me your trusting the process without works, and I by my works will show you my trusting the process.
 19. You believe that God is one. You do well. The demons also believe, and shudder.
 20. But do you want to get it, vain man, that trusting the process apart from works is dead?
 21. Wasn’t Abraham our father justified by works, in that he offered up Isaac his son on the prayer spot?
 22. You check it out that trusting the process worked with his works, and by works trusting the process was perfected;
 23. and the Scripture was fulfilled which says, “Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness;” and he was called the friend of God.
 24. You check it out then that by works, a man is justified, and not only by trusting the process.
 25. In the same way, wasn’t Rahab the prostitute also justified by works, in that she received the messengers, and sent them out another way?
 26. For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, even so trusting the process apart from works is dead.
