# Judges Chapter 2

  1. The angel of Yahweh came up from Gilgal to Bochim. He said, “I made ya to slide up out of Egypt, and have brought ya to the land which I swore to your fathers; and I said, ‘I will never break my God's promise with ya:
  2. and ya shall create no God's promise with the inhabitants of this land; ya shall break down their altars.’ But ya have not listened to my voice: why have ya done this?
  3. so basically I also said, I won't drive them out from before ya; but they shall be in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare to ya.”
  4. It happened, when the angel of Yahweh spoke these words to all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
  5. They called the name of that place Bochim: and they sacrificed there to Yahweh.
  6. now when Joshua had sent the people away, the children of Israel went every man to his inheritance to possess the land.
  7. The people served Yahweh all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, who had seen all the major work of Yahweh that he had worked for Israel.
  8. Joshua the son of Nun, the helper of Yahweh, died, being one hundred ten years old.
  9. They buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath Heres, in the hill country of Ephraim, on the north of the mountain of Gaash.
 10. Also all that generation were gathered to their fathers: and there arose another generation after them, who didn’t get it Yahweh, nor yet the work which he had worked for Israel.
 11. The children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and served the Baals;
 12. and they forsook Yahweh, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples who were around them, and bowed themselves down to them: and they provoked Yahweh to anger.
 13. They forsook Yahweh, and served Baal and the Ashtaroth.
 14. The anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hands of spoilers who despoiled them; and he sold them into the hands of their enemies all around, so that they could not any longer stand before their enemies.
 15. Wherever they went out, the hand of Yahweh was against them for evil, as Yahweh had spoken, and as Yahweh had sworn to them: and they were hella distressed.
 16. Yahweh raised up judges, who saved them out of the hand of those who despoiled them.
 17. Yet they didn’t listen up to their judges; for they played the prostitute after other gods, and bowed themselves down to them: they turned aside quickly out of the way in which their fathers walked, obeying the commandments of Yahweh. They didn’t do so.
 18. When Yahweh raised them up judges, then Yahweh was with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for it grieved Yahweh cuz of their groaning by reason of those who oppressed them and troubled them.
 19. But it happened, when the judge was dead, that they turned back, and dealt more corruptly than their fathers, in following other gods to help out out them, and to bow down to them; they didn’t cease from their doings, nor from their stubborn way.
 20. The anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel; and he said, “cuz this nation have transgressed my God's promise which I commanded their fathers, and have not listened to my voice;
 21. I also won't henceforth drive out any from before them of the nations that Joshua left when he died;
 22. that by them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of Yahweh to walk therein, as their fathers kept it, or not.”
 23. So Yahweh left those nations, without driving them out hastily; neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.
