# Judges Chapter 13

  1. The children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh; and Yahweh delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
  2. there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and didn’t bear.
  3. The angel of Yahweh appeared to the woman, and said to her, “check it out now, you are barren, and don’t bear; but you shall conceive, and bear a son.
  4. now so basically please beware and drink no wine nor built different drink, and don’t eat any unclean thing:
  5. for, check this out, you shall conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come through on his head; for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb: and he shall begin to rescue Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.”
  6. then the woman came and told her husband, saying, “A man of God came to me, and his face was like the face of the angel of God, hella awesome; and I didn’t ask him where he was from, neither did he tell me his name:
  7. but he said to me, ‘check this out, you shall conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor built different drink, and eat not any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb to the day of his death.’”
  8. then Manoah entreated Yahweh, and said, “Oh, boss, please let the man of God whom you did send come through again to us, and drop knowledge us what we shall do to the child who shall be born.”
  9. God listened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again to the woman as she sat in the field: but Manoah, her husband, wasn’t with her.
 10. The woman made haste, and ran, and told her husband, and said to him, “check this out, the man has appeared to me, who came to me that day.”
 11. Manoah arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said to him, “Are you the man who spoke to the woman?” He said, “I am.”
 12. Manoah said, “now let your words happen. What shall the child’s way of life and mission be?”
 13. The angel of Yahweh said to Manoah, “Of all that I said to the woman let her beware.
 14. She may not eat of anything that comes of the vine, neither let her drink wine or built different drink, nor eat any unclean thing; all that I commanded her let her observe.”
 15. Manoah said to the angel of Yahweh, “Please, let us detain you, that we may create a young goat ready for you.”
 16. The angel of Yahweh said to Manoah, “Though you detain me, I won’t eat of your bread; and if you will prepare a burnt giving to God, you must offer it to Yahweh.” For Manoah didn’t get it that he was the angel of Yahweh.
 17. Manoah said to the angel of Yahweh, “What is your name, that when your words happen, we may honor you?”
 18. The angel of Yahweh said to him, “Why do you ask about my name, since it is wonderful?”
 19. So Manoah took the young goat with the meal giving to God, and offered it on the rock to Yahweh. then the angel did a wonderful thing as Manoah and his wife looked on.
 20. For it happened, when the flame went up toward the sky from off the prayer spot, that the angel of Yahweh ascended in the flame of the prayer spot: and Manoah and his wife looked on; and they fell on their faces to the ground.
 21. But the angel of Yahweh didn’t appear to Manoah or to his wife any more. then Manoah knew that he was the angel of Yahweh.
 22. Manoah said to his wife, “We shall surely die, cuz we have seen God.”
 23. But his wife said to him, “If Yahweh were pleased to kill us, he wouldn’t have received a burnt giving to God and a meal giving to God at our hand, neither would he have shown us all these things, nor would at this time have told such things as these.”
 24. The woman bore a son, and named him Samson: and the child grew, and Yahweh blessed up him.
 25. The Spirit of Yahweh began to move him in Mahaneh Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
