# Malachi Chapter 1

    1. An oracle: the word of Yahweh to Israel by Malachi.
    2. “I have loved ya,” says Yahweh. Yet ya say, “How have ya loved us?” “Wasn’t Esau Jacob’s fam bro?” says Yahweh, “Yet I loved Jacob;
    3. but Esau I hated, and made his mountains a desolation, and gave his heritage to the jackals of the wilderness.”
    4. Whereas Edom says, “We are beaten down, but we will return and put together the waste places;” thus says Yahweh of Armies, “They shall put together, but I will huge drop; and men will call them ‘The Wicked Land,’ even the people against whom Yahweh shows wrath forever.”
    5. Your eyes will check it out, and ya will say, “Yahweh is major—even beyond the border of Israel!”
    6. “A son honors his father, and a helper his boss. If I am a father, then where is my honor? And if I am a boss, where is the respect due me? Says Yahweh of Armies to ya, priests, who despise my name. ya say, ‘How have we despised your name?’
    7. ya offer polluted bread on my talking to God spot. ya say, ‘How have we polluted ya?’ In that ya say, ‘Yahweh’s table contemptible.’
    8. When ya offer the blind for giving it up, isn’t that evil? And when ya offer the lame and sick, isn’t that evil? Present it now to your governor! Will he be pleased with ya? Or will he accept your person?” says Yahweh of Armies.
    9. “now, please entreat the favor of God, that he may be gracious to us. With this, will he accept any of ya?” says Yahweh of Armies.
  10. “Oh that there were one among ya who would shut the doors, that ya might not kindle fire on my talking to God spot in vain! I have no pleasure in ya,” says Yahweh of Armies, “neither will I accept an giving to God at your hand.
  11. For from the rising of the sun even to the going down of the same, my name is major among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to my name, and a pure giving to God: for my name is major among the nations,” says Yahweh of Armies.
  12. “But ya profane it, in that ya say, ‘Yahweh’s table is polluted, and its fruit, even its food, is contemptible.’
  13. ya say also, ‘check this out, what a weariness it is!’ and ya have sniffed at it,” says Yahweh of Armies; “and ya have brought that which was taken by violence, the lame, and the sick; thus ya bring the giving to God. Should I accept this at your hand?” says Yahweh.
  14. “But the deceiver is cursed, who has in his flock a male, and vows, and sacrifices to Boss a blemished thing; for I am a major ruler,” says Yahweh of Armies, “and my name is awesome among the nations.”
