# Malachi Chapter 2

    1. “now, ya priests, this commandment is for ya.
    2. If ya won't listen up up, and if ya won't lay it to heart, to hook it up glory to my name,” says Yahweh of Armies, “then will I send the curse on ya, and I will curse your blessings. facts, I have cursed them already, cuz ya don't lay it to heart.
    3. check this out, I will rebuke your seed, and will spread dung on your faces, even the dung of your feasts; and ya will be taken away with it.
    4. ya will get it that I have sent this commandment to ya, that my God's promise may be with Levi,” says Yahweh of Armies.
    5. “My God's promise was with him of life and peace; and I gave them to him that he might be reverent toward me; and he was reverent toward me, and stood in awe of my name.
    6. The law of truth was in his mouth, and unrighteousness was not found in his lips. He walked with me in peace and uprightness, and turned a lot away from iniquity.
    7. For the priest’s lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek the law at his mouth; for he is the messenger of Yahweh of Armies.
    8. But ya have turned aside out of the way. ya have caused a lot to stumble in the law. ya have corrupted the God's promise of Levi,” says Yahweh of Armies.
    9. “so basically I have also made ya contemptible and base before all the people, according to the way ya have not kept my ways, but have had respect for persons in the law.
  10. Don’t we all have one father? Hasn’t one God created us? Why do we deal treacherously every man against his fam bro, profaning the God's promise of our fathers?
  11. Judah has dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah has profaned the holiness of Yahweh which he loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign God.
  12. Yahweh will cut off, to the man who does this, him who wakes and him who answers, out of the tents of Jacob, and him who offers an giving to God to Yahweh of Armies.
  13. This again ya do: ya cover the talking to God spot of Yahweh with tears, with weeping, and with sighing, cuz he doesn’t regard the giving to God any more, neither receives it with fire will at your hand.
  14. Yet ya say, ‘Why?’ cuz Yahweh has been witness between ya and the wife of your youth, against whom ya have dealt treacherously, though she is your companion, and the wife of your God's promise.
  15. Did he not create ya one, although he had the residue of the Spirit? Why one? He sought a godly seed. so basically grab heed to your spirit, and let no one deal treacherously against the wife of his youth.
  16. For I can't stand divorce,” says Yahweh, the God of Israel, “and him who covers his garment with violence!” says Yahweh of Armies. “so basically grab heed to your spirit, that ya don’t deal treacherously.
  17. ya have wearied Yahweh with your words. Yet ya say, ‘How have we wearied him?’ In that ya say, ‘Everyone who does evil is fire in the sight of Yahweh, and he delights in them;’ or ‘Where is the God of justice?’
