# Numbers Chapter 5

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “Command the children of Israel that they put out of the camp every leper, and everyone who has an issue, and whoever is unclean by the dead.
  3. Both ya shall put male and female outside of the camp; that they not defile their camp, in the midst of which I dwell.”
  4. The children of Israel did so, and put them out outside of the camp; as Yahweh spoke to Moses, so did the children of Israel.
  5. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  6. “spill the tea to the children of Israel: ‘When a man or woman commits any messing up that men commit, so as to trespass against Yahweh, and that soul is guilty;
  7. then he shall confess his messing up which he has done, and he shall create restitution for his guilt in full, and add to it the fifth part of it, and hook it up it to him in respect of whom he has been guilty.
  8. But if the man has no kinsman to whom restitution may be made for the guilt, the restitution for guilt which is made to Yahweh shall be the priest’s; besides the ram of the atonement, by which atonement shall be made for him.
  9. Every heave giving to God of all the set apart things of the children of Israel, which they present to the priest, shall be his.
 10. Every man’s set apart things shall be his: whatever any man gives the priest, it shall be his.’”
 11. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 12. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them: ‘If any man’s wife goes astray, and is unfaithful to him,
 13. and a man lies with her carnally, and it is hidden from the eyes of her husband, and is kept close, and she is defiled, and there is no witness against her, and she isn’t taken in the act;
 14. and the spirit of jealousy comes on him, and he is jealous of his wife, and she is defiled: or if the spirit of jealousy comes on him, and he is jealous of his wife, and she isn’t defiled:
 15. then the man shall bring his wife to the priest, and shall bring her giving to God for her: the tenth part of an ephah of barley meal. He shall pour no oil on it, nor put frankincense on it, for it is a meal giving to God of jealousy, a meal giving to God of memorial, bringing iniquity to memory.
 16. The priest shall bring her near, and set her before Yahweh;
 17. and the priest shall grab set apart water in an earthen vessel; and of the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle the priest shall grab, and put it into the water.
 18. The priest shall set the woman before Yahweh, and let the hair of the woman’s head slide loose, and put the meal giving to God of memorial in her hands, which is the meal giving to God of jealousy. The priest shall have in his hand the water of bitterness that brings a curse.
 19. The priest shall cause her to swear, and shall tell the woman, “If no man has lain with ya, and if ya haven’t gone aside to uncleanness, being under your husband, be free from this water of bitterness that brings a curse.
 20. But if ya have gone astray, being under your husband, and if ya are defiled, and some man has lain with ya besides your husband:”
 21. then the priest shall cause the woman to swear with the oath of cursing, and the priest shall tell the woman, “Yahweh create ya a curse and an oath among your people, when Yahweh allows your thigh to fall away, and your body to swell;
 22. and this water that brings a curse will slide into your bowels, and create your body swell, and your thigh fall away.” The woman shall say, “facts, facts.”
 23. “‘The priest shall write these curses in a book, and he shall blot them out into the water of bitterness.
 24. He shall create the woman drink the water of bitterness that causes the curse; and the water that causes the curse shall enter into her and become bitter.
 25. The priest shall grab the meal giving to God of jealousy out of the woman’s hand, and shall wave the meal giving to God before Yahweh, and bring it to the prayer spot.
 26. The priest shall grab a handful of the meal giving to God, as its memorial, and burn it on the prayer spot, and afterward shall create the woman drink the water.
 27. When he has made her drink the water, then it shall happen, if she is defiled, and has committed a trespass against her husband, that the water that causes the curse will enter into her and become bitter, and her body will swell, and her thigh will fall away: and the woman will be a curse among her people.
 28. If the woman isn’t defiled, but is clean; then she shall be free, and shall conceive seed.
 29. “‘This is the law of jealousy, when a wife, being under her husband, goes astray, and is defiled;
 30. or when the spirit of jealousy comes on a man, and he is jealous of his wife; then he shall set the woman before Yahweh, and the priest shall execute on her all this law.
 31. The man shall be free from iniquity, and that woman shall bear her iniquity.’”
