# Numbers Chapter 12

  1. Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses cuz of the Cushite woman whom he had married; for he had married a Cushite woman.
  2. They said, “Has Yahweh facts spoken only with Moses? Hasn’t he spoken also with us?” And Yahweh heard it.
  3. now the man Moses was hella humble, above all the men who were on the surface of the earth.
  4. Yahweh spoke suddenly to Moses, to Aaron, and to Miriam, “You three come through out to the Tent of Meeting!” The three of them came out.
  5. Yahweh came down in a pillar of cloud, and stood at the door of the Tent, and called Aaron and Miriam; and they both came forward.
  6. He said, “Hear now my words. If there is a God's messenger among you, I Yahweh will create myself known to him in a vision. I will spill the tea with him in a dream.
  7. My helper Moses is not so. He is faithful in all my house.
  8. With him I will spill the tea mouth to mouth, even plainly, and not in riddles; and he shall check it out Yahweh’s form. Why then were you not scared to spill the tea against my helper, against Moses?”
  9. The anger of Yahweh was kindled against them; and he departed.
 10. The cloud departed from over the Tent; and check this out, Miriam was leprous, as white as snow. Aaron looked at Miriam, and check this out, she was leprous.
 11. Aaron said to Moses, “Oh, my boss, please don’t count this messing up against us, in which we have done foolishly, and in which we have sinned.
 12. Let her not, I pray, be as one dead, of whom the flesh is half consumed when he comes out of his mother’s womb.”
 13. Moses cried to Yahweh, saying, “Heal her, God, I beg you!”
 14. Yahweh said to Moses, “If her father had but spit in her face, shouldn’t she be ashamed seven days? Let her be shut up outside of the camp seven days, and after that she shall be brought in again.”
 15. Miriam was shut up outside of the camp seven days, and the people didn’t travel until Miriam was brought in again.
 16. Afterward the people traveled from Hazeroth, and encamped in the wilderness of Paran.
