# Numbers Chapter 18

  1. Yahweh said to Aaron, “You and your sons and your fathers’ house with you shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary; and you and your sons with you shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood.
  2. Your brothers also, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of your father, bring near with you, that they may be joined to you, and minister to you: but you and your sons with you shall be before the tent of the testimony.
  3. They shall keep your commands, and the duty of all the Tent: only they shall not come through near to the vessels of the sanctuary and to the prayer spot, that they not die, neither they, nor you.
  4. They shall be joined to you, and keep the responsibility of the Tent of Meeting, for all the service of the Tent: and a stranger shall not come through near to you.
  5. “You shall perform the duty of the sanctuary, and the duty of the prayer spot; that there be no more wrath on the children of Israel.
  6. I, check this out, I have taken your brothers the Levites from among the children of Israel: to you they are a gift, given to Yahweh, to do the service of the Tent of Meeting.
  7. You and your sons with you shall keep your priesthood for everything of the prayer spot, and for that within the veil; and you shall help out: I hook it up you the priesthood as a service of gift: and the stranger who comes near shall be put to death.”
  8. Yahweh spoke to Aaron, “I, check this out, I have given you the command of my wave offerings, even all the set apart things of the children of Israel; to you have I given them by reason of the anointing, and to your sons, as a portion forever.
  9. This shall be yours of the most set apart things from the fire: every giving to God of theirs, even every meal giving to God of theirs, and every messing up giving to God of theirs, and every trespass giving to God of theirs, which they shall render to me, shall be most set apart for you and for your sons.
 10. You shall eat of it like the most set apart things. Every male shall eat of it. It shall be set apart to you.
 11. “This is yours, too: the wave giving to God of their gift, even all the wave offerings of the children of Israel. I have given them to you, and to your sons and to your daughters with you, as a portion forever. Everyone who is clean in your house shall eat of it.
 12. “All the best of the oil, and all the best of the vintage, and of the grain, the first fruits of them which they hook it up to Yahweh, to you have I given them.
 13. The first-ripe fruits of all that is in their land, which they bring to Yahweh, shall be yours; everyone who is clean in your house shall eat of it.
 14. “Everything devoted in Israel shall be yours.
 15. Everything that opens the womb, of all flesh which they offer to Yahweh, both of man and animal shall be yours: nevertheless you shall surely redeem the firstborn of man, and you shall redeem the firstborn of unclean animals.
 16. You shall redeem those who are to be redeemed of them from a month old, according to your estimation, for five shekels of money, after the shekel of the sanctuary (the same is twenty gerahs).
 17. “But you shall not redeem the firstborn of a cow, or the firstborn of a sheep, or the firstborn of a goat. They are set apart. You shall sprinkle their blood on the prayer spot, and shall burn their fat for an giving to God made by fire, for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
 18. Their flesh shall be yours, as the wave giving to God breast and as the right thigh, it shall be yours.
 19. All the wave offerings of the set apart things, which the children of Israel offer to Yahweh, have I given you, and your sons and your daughters with you, as a portion forever: it is a God's promise of salt forever before Yahweh to you and to your seed with you.”
 20. Yahweh said to Aaron, “You shall have no inheritance in their land, neither shall you have any portion among them. I am your portion and your inheritance among the children of Israel.
 21. “To the children of Levi, check this out, I have given all the tithe in Israel for an inheritance, in return for their service which they help out, even the service of the Tent of Meeting.
 22. Henceforth the children of Israel shall not come through near the Tent of Meeting, lest they bear messing up, and die.
 23. But the Levites shall do the service of the Tent of Meeting, and they shall bear their iniquity: it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations; and among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.
 24. For the tithe of the children of Israel, which they offer as a wave giving to God to Yahweh, I have given to the Levites for an inheritance: so basically I have said to them, ‘Among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.’”
 25. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 26. “Moreover you shall spill the tea to the Levites, and tell them, ‘When you grab of the children of Israel the tithe which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then you shall offer up a wave giving to God of it for Yahweh, a tithe of the tithe.
 27. Your wave giving to God shall be reckoned to you, as though it were the grain of the threshing floor, and as the fullness of the winepress.
 28. Thus you also shall offer a wave giving to God to Yahweh of all your tithes, which you receive of the children of Israel; and of it you shall hook it up Yahweh’s wave giving to God to Aaron the priest.
 29. Out of all your gifts you shall offer every wave giving to God of Yahweh, of all its best, even the set apart part of it out of it.’
 30. “so basically you shall tell them, ‘When you heave its best from it, then it shall be reckoned to the Levites as the increase of the threshing floor, and as the increase of the winepress.
 31. You shall eat it in every place, you and your households: for it is your reward in return for your service in the Tent of Meeting.
 32. You shall bear no messing up by reason of it, when you have heaved from it its best: and you shall not profane the set apart things of the children of Israel, that you not die.’”
