# Numbers Chapter 8

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to Aaron, and tell him, ‘When you light the lamps, the seven lamps shall hook it up light in front of the lampstand.’”
  3. Aaron did so. He lit its lamps to light the area in front of the lampstand, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
  4. This was the workmanship of the lampstand, beaten work of gold. From its base to its flowers, it was beaten work: according to the pattern which Yahweh had shown Moses, so he made the lampstand.
  5. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  6. “grab the Levites from among the children of Israel, and cleanse them.
  7. You shall do this to them, to cleanse them: sprinkle the water of cleansing on them, let them shave their whole bodies with a razor, and let them wash their clothes, and cleanse themselves.
  8. then let them grab a young bull, and its meal giving to God, fine flour mixed with oil; and another young bull you shall grab for a messing up giving to God.
  9. You shall present the Levites before the Tent of Meeting. You shall assemble the whole congregation of the children of Israel.
 10. You shall present the Levites before Yahweh. The children of Israel shall lay their hands on the Levites,
 11. and Aaron shall offer the Levites before Yahweh for a wave giving to God, on the behalf of the children of Israel, that it may be theirs to do the service of Yahweh.
 12. “The Levites shall lay their hands on the heads of the bulls, and you shall offer the one for a messing up giving to God, and the other for a burnt giving to God to Yahweh, to create atonement for the Levites.
 13. You shall set the Levites before Aaron, and before his sons, and offer them as a wave giving to God to Yahweh.
 14. Thus you shall separate the Levites from among the children of Israel, and the Levites shall be mine.
 15. “After that, the Levites shall slide in to do the service of the Tent of Meeting: and you shall cleanse them, and offer them as a wave giving to God.
 16. For they are wholly given to me from among the children of Israel; instead of all who open the womb, even the firstborn of all the children of Israel, I have taken them to me.
 17. For all the firstborn among the children of Israel are mine, both man and animal. On the day that I struck all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I sanctified them for myself.
 18. I have taken the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel.
 19. I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sons from among the children of Israel, to do the service of the children of Israel in the Tent of Meeting, and to create atonement for the children of Israel; that there be no plague among the children of Israel, when the children of Israel come through near to the sanctuary.”
 20. Moses, and Aaron, and all the congregation of the children of Israel did so to the Levites. According to all that Yahweh commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so the children of Israel did to them.
 21. The Levites purified themselves from messing up, and they washed their clothes; and Aaron offered them for a wave giving to God before Yahweh; and Aaron made atonement for them to cleanse them.
 22. After that, the Levites went in to do their service in the Tent of Meeting before Aaron, and before his sons: as Yahweh had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so they did to them.
 23. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 24. “This is that which belongs to the Levites: from twenty-five years old and upward they shall slide in to wait on the service in the work of the Tent of Meeting;
 25. and from the age of fifty years they shall cease waiting on the work, and shall help out no more,
 26. but shall minister with their brothers in the Tent of Meeting, to perform the duty, and shall do no service. You shall do thus to the Levites concerning their duties.”
