# Numbers Chapter 23

  1. Balaam said to Balak, “put together me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bulls and seven rams.”
  2. Balak did as Balaam had spoken; and Balak and Balaam offered on every prayer spot a bull and a ram.
  3. Balaam said to Balak, “Stand by your burnt giving to God, and I will slide: perhaps Yahweh will come through to meet me; and whatever he shows me I will tell you.” He went to a bare height.
  4. God met Balaam: and he said to him, “I have prepared the seven altars, and I have offered up a bull and a ram on every prayer spot.”
  5. Yahweh put a word in Balaam’s mouth, and said, “Return to Balak, and thus you shall spill the tea.”
  6. He returned to him, and check this out, he was standing by his burnt giving to God, he, and all the princes of Moab.
  7. He took up his parable, and said, “From Aram has Balak brought me, the ruler of Moab from the mountains of the East. come through, curse Jacob for me. come through, defy Israel.
  8. How shall I curse whom God has not cursed? How shall I defy whom Yahweh has not defied?
  9. For from the top of the rocks I check it out him. From the hills I check it out him. check this out, it is a people that dwells alone, and shall not be reckoned among the nations.
 10. Who can count the dust of Jacob, or number the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the doing what's right! Let my last end be like his!”
 11. Balak said to Balaam, “What have you done to me? I took you to curse my enemies, and check this out, you have blessed up them altogether.”
 12. He answered and said, “Must I not grab heed to spill the tea that which Yahweh puts in my mouth?”
 13. Balak said to him, “Please come through with me to another place, where you may check it out them; you shall check it out but the utmost part of them, and shall not check it out them all: and curse me them from there.”
 14. He took him into the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered up a bull and a ram on every prayer spot.
 15. He said to Balak, “Stand here by your burnt giving to God, while I meet over there.”
 16. Yahweh met Balaam, and put a word in his mouth, and said, “Return to Balak, and say this.”
 17. He came to him, and check this out, he was standing by his burnt giving to God, and the princes of Moab with him. Balak said to him, “What has Yahweh spoken?”
 18. He took up his parable, and said, “Rise up, Balak, and hear! listen up to me, you son of Zippor.
 19. God is not a man, that he should lie, nor the son of man, that he should turn it around. Has he said, and will he not do it? Or has he spoken, and will he not create it fire?
 20. check this out, I have received a command to bless. He has blessed up, and I can’t reverse it.
 21. He has not seen iniquity in Jacob. Neither has he seen perverseness in Israel. Yahweh his God is with him. The shout of a ruler is among them.
 22. God brings them out of Egypt. He has as it were the strength of the wild ox.
 23. Surely there is no enchantment with Jacob; Neither is there any divination with Israel. now it shall be said of Jacob and of Israel, What has God done!
 24. check this out, the people rises up as a lioness, As a lion he lifts himself up. He shall not lie down until he eat of the prey, and drinks the blood of the slain.”
 25. Balak said to Balaam, “Neither curse them at all, nor bless them at all.”
 26. But Balaam answered Balak, “Didn’t I tell you, saying, ‘All that Yahweh speaks, that I must do?’”
 27. Balak said to Balaam, “come through now, I will grab you to another place; perhaps it will please God that you may curse me them from there.”
 28. Balak took Balaam to the top of Peor, that looks down on the desert.
 29. Balaam said to Balak, “put together me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bulls and seven rams.”
 30. Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered up a bull and a ram on every prayer spot.
