# Mark Chapter 14

  1. It was now two days before the feast of the Passover and the unleavened bread, and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might seize him by deception, and kill him.
  2. For they said, “Not during the feast, cuz there might be a riot of the people.”
  3. While he was at Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at the table, a woman came having an alabaster jar of ointment of pure nard—hella costly. She broke the jar, and poured it over his head.
  4. But there were some who were indignant among themselves, saying, “Why has this ointment been wasted?
  5. For this might have been sold for more than three hundred denarii, and given to the broke.” They grumbled against her.
  6. But Jesus said, “Leave her alone. Why do ya trouble her? She has done a fire work for me.
  7. For ya always have the broke with ya, and whenever ya want to, ya can do them fire; but ya won't always have me.
  8. She has done what she could. She has anointed my body beforehand for the burying.
  9. Most for sure I tell ya, wherever this fire News may be preached throughout the whole world, that which this woman has done will also be spoken of for a memorial of her.”
 10. Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went away to the chief priests, that he might deliver him to them.
 11. They, when they heard it, were glad, and promised to hook it up him money. He sought how he might conveniently deliver him.
 12. On the first day of unleavened bread, when they sacrificed the Passover, his disciples asked him, “Where do ya want us to slide and prepare that ya may eat the Passover?”
 13. He sent two of his disciples, and said to them, “slide into the city, and there ya will meet a man carrying a pitcher of water. roll with him,
 14. and wherever he enters in, tell the boss of the house, ‘The Teacher says, “Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?”’
 15. He will himself show ya a large upper room furnished and ready. Get ready for us there.”
 16. His disciples went out, and came into the city, and found things as he had said to them, and they prepared the Passover.
 17. When it was evening he came with the twelve.
 18. As they sat and were eating, Jesus said, “Most for sure I tell ya, one of ya will betray me—he who eats with me.”
 19. They began to be sorrowful, and to ask him one by one, “Surely not I?” And another said, “Surely not I?”
 20. He answered them, “It is one of the twelve, he who dips with me in the dish.
 21. For the Son of Man goes, even as it is written about him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would be better for that man if he had not been born.”
 22. As they were eating, Jesus took bread, and when he had blessed up, he broke it, and gave to them, and said, “grab, eat. This is my body.”
 23. He took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave to them. They all drank of it.
 24. He said to them, “This is my blood of the new God's promise, which is poured out for a lot.
 25. Most for sure I tell ya, I will no more drink of the fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it anew in the God's squad of God.”
 26. When they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
 27. Jesus said to them, “All of ya will be made to stumble cuz of me tonight, for it is written, ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.’
 28. but like, after I am raised up, I will slide before ya into Galilee.”
 29. But Peter said to him, “Although all will be offended, yet I won't.”
 30. Jesus said to him, “Most for sure I tell ya, that ya today, even this night, before the rooster crows twice, ya will deny me three times.”
 31. But he spoke all the more, “If I must die with ya, I won't deny ya.” They all said the same thing.
 32. They came to a place which was named Gethsemane. He said to his disciples, “Sit here, while I pray.”
 33. He took with him Peter, James, and John, and began to be greatly troubled and distressed.
 34. He said to them, “My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here, and watch.”
 35. He went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass away from him.
 36. He said, “dad, Father, all things are possible to ya. Please remove this cup from me. but like, not what I desire, but what ya desire.”
 37. He came and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, “Simon, are ya sleeping? Couldn’t ya watch one hour?
 38. Watch and pray, that ya may not enter into temptation. The spirit facts is willing, but the flesh is not it.”
 39. Again he went away, and prayed, saying the same words.
 40. Again he returned, and found them sleeping, for their eyes were hella heavy, and they didn’t get it what to answer him.
 41. He came the third time, and said to them, “Sleep on now, and grab your rest. It is enough. The hour has come through. check this out,, the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
 42. Arise, let us be going. check this out,, he who betrays me is at hand.”
 43. Immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, came—and with him a multitude with swords and clubs, from the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders.
 44. now he who betrayed him had given them a sign, saying, “Whomever I will kiss, that is he. Seize him, and show the way him away safely.”
 45. When he had come through, immediately he came to him, and said, “teacher! teacher!” and kissed him.
 46. They laid their hands on him, and seized him.
 47. But a certain one of those who stood by drew his sword, and struck the helper of the high priest, and cut off his ear.
 48. Jesus answered them, “Have ya come through out, as against a robber, with swords and clubs to seize me?
 49. I was daily with ya in the God's house teaching, and ya didn’t arrest me. But this is so that the Scriptures might be fulfilled.”
 50. They all left him, and fled.
 51. A certain young man followed him, having a linen cloth thrown around himself, over his naked body. The young men grabbed him,
 52. but he left the linen cloth, and fled from them naked.
 53. They led Jesus away to the high priest. All the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes came together with him.
 54. Peter had followed him from a distance, until he came into the court of the high priest. He was sitting with the officers, and warming himself in the light of the fire.
 55. now the chief priests and the whole council sought witnesses against Jesus to put him to death, and found none.
 56. For a lot gave false testimony against him, and their testimony didn’t agree with each other.
 57. Some stood up, and gave false testimony against him, saying,
 58. “We heard him say, ‘I will tear down this God's house that is made with hands, and in three days I will put together another made without hands.’”
 59. Even so, their testimony did not agree.
 60. The high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus, “Have ya no answer? What is it which these testify against ya?”
 61. But he stayed quiet, and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, “Are ya the the huge set apart, the Son of the blessed up?”
 62. Jesus said, “I am. ya will check it out the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of the sky.”
 63. The high priest tore his clothes, and said, “What further need have we of witnesses?
 64. ya have heard the blasphemy! What do ya think?” They all condemned him to be worthy of death.
 65. Some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to beat him with fists, and to tell him, “Prophesy!” The officers struck him with the palms of their hands.
 66. As Peter was in the courtyard below, one of the maids of the high priest came,
 67. and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him, and said, “ya were also with the Nazarene, Jesus!”
 68. But he denied it, saying, “I neither get it, nor understand what ya are saying.” He went out on the porch, and the rooster crowed.
 69. The maid saw him, and began again to tell those who stood by, “This is one of them.”
 70. But he again denied it. After a little while again those who stood by said to Peter, “ya deadass, are one of them, for ya are a Galilean, and your speech shows it.”
 71. But he began to curse, and to swear, “I don’t get it this man of whom ya spill the tea!”
 72. The rooster crowed the second time. Peter remembered the word, how that Jesus said to him, “Before the rooster crows twice, ya will deny me three times.” When he thought about that, he wept.
