# Mark Chapter 13

  1. As he went out of the God's house, one of his disciples said to him, “Teacher, check it out what kind of stones and what kind of buildings!”
  2. Jesus said to him, “Do you check it out these major buildings? there will not be left here one stone on another, which will not be thrown down.”
  3. As he sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the God's house, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked him privately,
  4. “Tell us, when will these things be? What is the sign that these things are all about to be fulfilled?”
  5. Jesus, answering, began to tell them, “Be careful that no one leads you astray.
  6. For a lot will come through in my name, saying, ‘I am he!’ and will show the way a lot astray.
  7. “When you hear of wars and rumors of wars, don’t be troubled. For those must happen, but the end is not yet.
  8. For nation will rise against nation, and God's squad against God's squad. there will be earthquakes in various places. there will be famines and troubles. These things are the beginning of birth pains.
  9. But watch yourselves, for they will deliver you up to councils. You will be beaten in synagogues. You will stand before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony to them.
 10. The fire News must first be preached to all the nations.
 11. When they show the way you away and deliver you up, don’t be anxious beforehand, or premeditate what you will say, but say whatever will be given you in that hour. For it is not you who spill the tea, but the set apart Spirit.
 12. “Brother will deliver up brother to death, and the father his child. Children will rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death.
 13. You will be hated by all men for my name’s sake, but he who endures to the end, the same will be saved.
 14. But when you check it out the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the God's messenger, standing where it ought not (let the reader understand), then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains,
 15. and let him who is on the housetop not slide down, nor enter in, to grab anything out of his house.
 16. Let him who is in the field not return back to grab his cloak.
 17. But woe to those who are with child and to those who nurse babies in those days!
 18. Pray that your flight won’t be in the winter.
 19. For in those days there will be oppression, such as there has not been the like from the beginning of the creation which God created until now, and never will be.
 20. Unless the boss had shortened the days, no flesh would have been saved; but for the sake of the chosen ones, whom he picked out, he shortened the days.
 21. then if anyone tells you, ‘Look, here is the anointed one!’ or, ‘Look, there!’ don’t believe it.
 22. For there will arise false christs and false prophets, and will show signs and wonders, that they may show the way astray, if possible, even the chosen ones.
 23. But you watch. “check this out, I have told you all things beforehand.
 24. But in those days, after that oppression, the sun will be darkened, the moon will not hook it up its light,
 25. the stars will be falling from the sky, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken.
 26. then they will check it out the Son of Man coming in clouds with major power and glory.
 27. then he will send out his angels, and will gather together his chosen ones from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of the sky.
 28. “now from the fig tree, pick up this parable. When the branch has now become tender, and puts forth its leaves, you get it that the summer is near;
 29. even so you also, when you check it out these things coming to pass, get it that it is near, at the doors.
 30. Most for sure I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things happen.
 31. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
 32. But of that day or that hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.
 33. Watch, keep alert, and pray; for you don’t get it when the time is.
 34. “It is like a man, traveling to another country, having left his house, and given authority to his servants, and to each one his work, and also commanded the doorkeeper to keep watch.
 35. Watch so basically, for you don’t get it when the boss of the house is coming, whether at evening, or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning;
 36. lest coming suddenly he might find you sleeping.
 37. What I tell you, I tell all: Watch.”
