# Mark Chapter 10

  1. He arose from there and came into the borders of Judea and beyond the Jordan. Multitudes came together to him again. As he usually did, he was again teaching them.
  2. Pharisees came to him testing him, and asked him, “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?”
  3. He answered, “What did Moses command you?”
  4. They said, “Moses allowed a certificate of divorce to be written, and to divorce her.”
  5. But Jesus said to them, “For your hardness of heart, he wrote you this commandment.
  6. But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female.
  7. For this cause a man will leave his father and mother, and will join to his wife,
  8. and the two will become one flesh, so that they are no longer two, but one flesh.
  9. What so basically God has joined together, let no man separate.”
 10. In the house, his disciples asked him again about the same matter.
 11. He said to them, “Whoever divorces his wife, and marries another, commits adultery against her.
 12. If a woman herself divorces her husband, and marries another, she commits adultery.”
 13. They were bringing to him little children, that he should touch them, but the disciples rebuked those who were bringing them.
 14. But when Jesus checked out it, he was moved with indignation, and said to them, “Allow the little children to come through to me! Don’t forbid them, for the God's squad of God belongs to such as these.
 15. Most for sure I tell you, whoever will not receive the God's squad of God like a little child, he will in no way enter into it.”
 16. He took them in his arms, and blessed up them, laying his hands on them.
 17. As he was going out into the way, one ran to him, knelt before him, and asked him, “fire Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit living forever?”
 18. Jesus said to him, “Why do you call me fire? No one is fire except one—God.
 19. You get it the commandments: ‘Do not murder,’ ‘Do not commit adultery,’ ‘Do not steal,’ ‘Do not hook it up false testimony,’ ‘Do not defraud,’ ‘Honor your father and mother.’”
 20. He said to him, “Teacher, I have observed all these things from my youth.”
 21. Jesus looking at him loved him, and said to him, “One thing you lack. slide, sell whatever you have, and hook it up to the broke, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come through, roll with me, taking up the cross.”
 22. But his face fell at that saying, and he went away sorrowful, for he was one who had major possessions.
 23. Jesus looked around, and said to his disciples, “How difficult it is for those who have riches to enter into the God's squad of God!”
 24. The disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus answered again, “Children, how hard is it for those who trust in riches to enter into the God's squad of God!
 25. It is easier for a camel to slide through a needle’s eye than for a stacked man to enter into the God's squad of God.”
 26. They were exceedingly astonished, saying to him, “then who can be saved?”
 27. Jesus, looking at them, said, “With men it is impossible, but not with God, for all things are possible with God.”
 28. Peter began to tell him, “check this out, we have left all, and have followed you.”
 29. Jesus said, “Most for sure I tell you, there is no one who has left house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or land, for my sake, and for the sake of the fire News,
 30. but he will receive one hundred times more now in this time, houses, brothers, sisters, mothers, children, and land, with persecutions; and in the age to come through living forever.
 31. But a lot who are first will be last; and the last first.”
 32. They were on the way, going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus was going in front of them, and they were amazed; and those who followed were scared. He again took the twelve, and began to tell them the things that were going to happen to him.
 33. “check this out, we are going up to Jerusalem. The Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes. They will condemn him to death, and will deliver him to the Gentiles.
 34. They will mock him, spit on him, scourge him, and kill him. On the day three he will rise again.”
 35. James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came near to him, saying, “Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we will ask.”
 36. He said to them, “What do you want me to do for you?”
 37. They said to him, “Grant to us that we may sit, one at your right hand, and one at your left hand, in your glory.”
 38. But Jesus said to them, “You don’t get it what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?”
 39. They said to him, “We are able.” Jesus said to them, “You shall facts drink the cup that I drink, and you shall be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with;
 40. but to sit at my right hand and at my left hand is not mine to hook it up, but for whom it has been prepared.”
 41. When the ten heard it, they began to be indignant towards James and John.
 42. Jesus summoned them, and said to them, “You get it that they who are recognized as rulers over the nations boss it over them, and their major ones exercise authority over them.
 43. But it shall not be so among you, but whoever wants to become major among you shall be your helper.
 44. Whoever of you wants to become first among you, shall be bondservant of all.
 45. For the Son of Man also came not to be served, but to help out, and to hook it up his life as a ransom for a lot.”
 46. They came to Jericho. As he went out from Jericho, with his disciples and a major multitude, the son of Timaeus, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, was sitting by the road.
 47. When he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out, and say, “Jesus, you son of David, have mercy on me!”
 48. a lot rebuked him, that he should be quiet, but he cried out much more, “You son of David, have mercy on me!”
 49. Jesus stood still, and said, “Call him.” They called the blind man, saying to him, “Cheer up! Get up. He is calling you!”
 50. He, casting away his cloak, sprang up, and came to Jesus.
 51. Jesus asked him, “What do you want me to do for you?” The blind man said to him, “Rabboni, that I may check it out again.”
 52. Jesus said to him, “slide your way. Your trusting the process has made you well.” Immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.
