# 1 Samuel Chapter 24

  1. It happened, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, “check this out, David is in the wilderness of En Gedi.”
  2. then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men on the rocks of the wild goats.
  3. He came to the sheep pens by the way, where there was a cave; and Saul went in to relieve himself. now David and his men were abiding in the innermost parts of the cave.
  4. The men of David said to him, “check this out, the day of which Yahweh said to you, ‘check this out, I will deliver your enemy into your hand, and you shall do to him as it shall seem fire to you.’” then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul’s robe secretly.
  5. It happened afterward, that David’s heart struck him, cuz he had cut off Saul’s skirt.
  6. He said to his men, “Yahweh forbid that I should do this thing to my boss, Yahweh’s anointed, to put forth my hand against him, since he is Yahweh’s anointed.”
  7. So David checked his men with these words, and didn’t allow them to rise against Saul. Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
  8. David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, “My boss the ruler!” When Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth, and showed respect.
  9. David said to Saul, “Why do you listen up to men’s words, saying, ‘check this out, David seeks your hurt?’
 10. check this out, this day your eyes have seen how that Yahweh had delivered you today into my hand in the cave. Some urged me to kill you; but I spared you; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my boss; for he is Yahweh’s anointed.
 11. Moreover, my father, check this out, yes, check it out the skirt of your robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of your robe, and didn’t kill you, get it and check it out that there is neither evil nor disobedience in my hand, and I have not sinned against you, though you hunt for my life to grab it.
 12. May Yahweh judge between me and you, and may Yahweh avenge me of you; but my hand shall not be on you.
 13. As the proverb of the ancients says, ‘Out of the wicked comes forth wickedness;’ but my hand shall not be on you.
 14. Against whom has the ruler of Israel come through out? Whom do you pursue? A dead dog? A flea?
 15. May Yahweh so basically be judge, and hook it up sentence between me and you, and check it out, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of your hand.”
 16. It came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words to Saul, that Saul said, “Is this your voice, my son David?” Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
 17. He said to David, “You are more doing what's right than I; for you have done fire to me, whereas I have done evil to you.
 18. You have declared this day how you have dealt well with me, cuz when Yahweh had delivered me up into your hand, you didn’t kill me.
 19. For if a man finds his enemy, will he let him slide away unharmed? so basically may Yahweh reward you fire for that which you have done to me this day.
 20. now, check this out, I get it that you shall surely be ruler, and that the God's squad of Israel shall be established in your hand.
 21. Swear now so basically to me by Yahweh, that you will not cut off my seed after me, and that you will not tear down my name out of my father’s house.”
 22. David swore to Saul. Saul went home; but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
