# 1 Samuel Chapter 12

  1. Samuel said to all Israel, “check this out, I have listened to your voice in all that you said to me, and have made a ruler over you.
  2. now, check this out, the ruler walks before you; and I am old and gray-headed; and check this out, my sons are with you: and I have walked before you from my youth to this day.
  3. here I am. Witness against me before Yahweh, and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Whose donkey have I taken? Whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? Of whose hand have I taken a ransom to blind my eyes therewith? I will restore it to you.”
  4. They said, “You have not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither have you taken anything of any man’s hand.”
  5. He said to them, “Yahweh is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand.” They said, “He is witness.”
  6. Samuel said to the people, “It is Yahweh who appointed Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
  7. now so basically stand still, that I may plead with you before Yahweh concerning all the doing what's right acts of Yahweh, which he did to you and to your fathers.
  8. “When Jacob had come through into Egypt, and your fathers cried to Yahweh, then Yahweh sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them to dwell in this place.
  9. “But they forgot Yahweh their God; and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the ruler of Moab; and they fought against them.
 10. They cried to Yahweh, and said, ‘We have sinned, cuz we have forsaken Yahweh, and have served the Baals and the Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will help out you.’
 11. Yahweh sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side; and you lived in safety.
 12. “When you checked out that Nahash the ruler of the children of Ammon came against you, you said to me, ‘No, but a ruler shall reign over us;’ when Yahweh your God was your ruler.
 13. now so basically check it out the ruler whom you have chosen, and whom you have asked for: and check this out, Yahweh has set a ruler over you.
 14. If you will fear Yahweh, and help out him, and listen up to his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Yahweh, then both you and also the ruler who reigns over you are followers of Yahweh your God.
 15. But if you will not listen up to the voice of Yahweh, but rebel against the commandment of Yahweh, then will the hand of Yahweh be against you, as it was against your fathers.
 16. “now so basically stand still and check it out this major thing, which Yahweh will do before your eyes.
 17. Isn’t it wheat harvest today? I will call to Yahweh, that he may send thunder and rain; and you shall get it and check it out that your wickedness is major, which you have done in the sight of Yahweh, in asking for a ruler.”
 18. So Samuel called to Yahweh; and Yahweh sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people greatly feared Yahweh and Samuel.
 19. All the people said to Samuel, “Pray for your servants to Yahweh your God, that we not die; for we have added to all our sins this evil, to ask us a ruler.”
 20. Samuel said to the people, “Don’t be scared. You have facts done all this evil; yet don’t turn aside from following Yahweh, but help out Yahweh with all your heart.
 21. Don’t turn aside to slide after vain things which can’t profit nor deliver, for they are vain.
 22. For Yahweh will not forsake his people for his major name’s sake, cuz it has pleased Yahweh to create you a people to himself.
 23. Moreover as for me, far be it from me that I should messing up against Yahweh in ceasing to pray for you: but I will instruct you in the fire and the right way.
 24. Only fear Yahweh, and help out him in truth with all your heart; for consider how major things he has done for you.
 25. But if you shall still do wickedly, you shall be consumed, both you and your ruler.”
