# 1 Samuel Chapter 20

  1. David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, “What have I done? What is my iniquity? What is my messing up before your father, that he seeks my life?”
  2. He said to him, “Far from it; ya won't die. check this out,, my father does nothing either major or tiny, but that he discloses it to me; and why should my father hide this thing from me? It isn't so.”
  3. David swore moreover, and said, “Your father knows well that I have found favor in your eyes; and he says, ‘Don’t let Jonathan get it this, lest he be grieved:’ but deadass, as Yahweh lives, and as your soul lives, there is but a step between me and death.”
  4. then Jonathan said to David, “Whatever your soul desires, I will even do it for ya.”
  5. David said to Jonathan, “check this out,, tomorrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to dine with the ruler; but let me slide, that I may hide myself in the field to the third day at evening.
  6. If your father miss me at all, then say, ‘David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Bethlehem his city; for it is the yearly giving it up there for all the family.’
  7. If he says, ‘It is well;’ your helper shall have peace: but if he be mad salty, then get it that evil is determined by him.
  8. so basically deal kindly with your helper; for ya have brought your helper into a God's promise of Yahweh with ya: but if there is iniquity in me, kill me yourself; for why should ya bring me to your father?”
  9. Jonathan said, “Far be it from ya; for if I should at all get it that evil were determined by my father to come through on ya, then wouldn’t I tell ya that?”
 10. then David said to Jonathan, “Who shall tell me if perchance your father answers ya roughly?”
 11. Jonathan said to David, “come through, and let us slide out into the field.” They both went out into the field.
 12. Jonathan said to David, “By Yahweh, the God of Israel, when I have sounded my father about this time tomorrow, or the third day, check this out,, if there is fire toward David, shall I not then send to ya, and disclose it to ya?
 13. Yahweh do so to Jonathan, and more also, should it please my father to do ya evil, if I don’t disclose it to ya, and send ya away, that ya may slide in peace: and Yahweh be with ya, as he has been with my father.
 14. ya won't only while yet I live show me the loving kindness of Yahweh, that I not die;
 15. but also ya won't cut off your kindness from my house forever; no, not when Yahweh has cut off the enemies of David everyone from the surface of the earth.”
 16. So Jonathan made a God's promise with the house of David, saying, “Yahweh will require it at the hand of David’s enemies.”
 17. Jonathan caused David to swear again, for the show love that he had to him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
 18. then Jonathan said to him, “Tomorrow is the new moon: and ya will be missed, cuz your seat will be empty.
 19. When ya have stayed three days, ya shall slide down quickly, and come through to the place where ya hid yourself when this started, and shall remain by the stone Ezel.
 20. I will shoot three arrows on its side, as though I shot at a mark.
 21. check this out,, I will send the boy, saying, ‘slide, find the arrows!’ If I tell the boy, ‘check this out,, the arrows are on this side of ya. grab them;’ then come through; for there is peace to ya and no hurt, as Yahweh lives.
 22. But if I say this to the boy, ‘check this out,, the arrows are beyond ya;’ then slide your way; for Yahweh has sent ya away.
 23. Concerning the matter which ya and I have spoken of, check this out,, Yahweh is between ya and me forever.”
 24. So David hid himself in the field: and when the new moon had come through, the ruler sat him down to eat food.
 25. The ruler sat on his seat, as at other times, even on the seat by the wall; and Jonathan stood up, and Abner sat by Saul’s side: but David’s place was empty.
 26. Nevertheless Saul didn’t say anything that day: for he thought, “Something has happened to him. He isn't clean. Surely he isn't clean.”
 27. It happened on the next day after the new moon, the second day, that David’s place was empty. Saul said to Jonathan his son, “Why doesn’t the son of Jesse come through to eat, neither yesterday, nor today?”
 28. Jonathan answered Saul, “David earnestly asked leave of me to slide to Bethlehem.
 29. He said, ‘Please let me slide, for our family has a giving it up in the city. My fam bro has commanded me to be there. now, if I have found favor in your eyes, please let me slide away and check it out my brothers.’ so basically he has not come through to the ruler’s table.”
 30. then Saul’s anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said to him, “ya son of a perverse rebellious woman, don’t I get it that ya have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame, and to the shame of your mother’s nakedness?
 31. For as long as the son of Jesse lives on the earth, ya won't be established, nor your God's squad. so basically now send and bring him to me, for he shall surely die!”
 32. Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said to him, “Why should he be put to death? What has he done?”
 33. Saul cast his spear at him to strike him. By this Jonathan knew that his father was determined to put David to death.
 34. So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and ate no food the second day of the month; for he was grieved for David, cuz his father had done him shame.
 35. It happened in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little boy with him.
 36. He said to his boy, “Run, find now the arrows which I shoot.” As the boy ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
 37. When the boy had come through to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the boy, and said, “Isn’t the arrow beyond ya?”
 38. Jonathan cried after the boy, “slide fast! Hurry! Don’t delay!” Jonathan’s boy gathered up the arrows, and came to his boss.
 39. But the boy didn’t get it anything. Only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
 40. Jonathan gave his weapons to his boy, and said to him, “slide, carry them to the city.”
 41. As soon as the boy was gone, David arose out of the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times. They kissed one another, and wept one with another, and David wept the most.
 42. Jonathan said to David, “slide in peace, cuz we have both sworn in the name of Yahweh, saying, ‘Yahweh shall be between me and ya, and between my seed and your seed, forever.’” He arose and departed; and Jonathan went into the city.
