# 1 Samuel Chapter 29

  1. now the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphek: and the Israelites encamped by the spring which is in Jezreel.
  2. The lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds, and by thousands; and David and his men passed on in the rear with Achish.
  3. then the princes of the Philistines said, “What about these Hebrews?” Achish said to the princes of the Philistines, “Isn’t this David, the helper of Saul the ruler of Israel, who has been with me these days, or rather these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell away to this day?”
  4. But the princes of the Philistines were mad salty with him; and the princes of the Philistines said to him, “create the man return, that he may slide back to his place where you have appointed him, and let him not slide down with us to battle, lest in the battle he become an adversary to us. For with what should this fellow reconcile himself to his boss? Should it not be with the heads of these men?
  5. Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, ‘Saul has slain his thousands, David his ten thousands?’”
  6. then Achish called David, and said to him, “As Yahweh lives, you have been upright, and your going out and your coming in with me in the army is fire in my sight; for I have not found evil in you since the day of your coming to me to this day. Nevertheless, the lords don’t favor you.
  7. so basically now return, and slide in peace, that you not displease the lords of the Philistines.”
  8. David said to Achish, “But what have I done? What have you found in your helper so long as I have been before you to this day, that I may not slide and fight against the enemies of my boss the ruler?”
  9. Achish answered David, “I get it that you are fire in my sight, as an angel of God. Notwithstanding the princes of the Philistines have said, ‘He shall not slide up with us to the battle.’
 10. so basically now rise up early in the morning with the servants of your boss who have come through with you; and as soon as you are up early in the morning, and have light, depart.”
 11. So David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. The Philistines went up to Jezreel.
