# 1 Samuel Chapter 8

  1. It happened, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel.
  2. now the name of his firstborn was Joel; and the name of his second, Abijah: they were judges in Beersheba.
  3. His sons didn’t walk in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted justice.
  4. then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel to Ramah;
  5. and they said to him, “check this out,, ya are old, and your sons don’t walk in your ways: now create us a ruler to judge us like all the nations.”
  6. But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, “hook it up us a ruler to judge us.” Samuel prayed to Yahweh.
  7. Yahweh said to Samuel, “listen up to the voice of the people in all that they tell ya; for they have not rejected ya, but they have rejected me, that I should not be ruler over them.
  8. According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even to this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also to ya.
  9. now so basically listen up to their voice: but like ya shall protest solemnly to them, and shall show them the way of the ruler who shall reign over them.”
 10. Samuel told all the words of Yahweh to the people who asked of him a ruler.
 11. He said, “This will be the way of the ruler who shall reign over ya: he will grab your sons, and appoint them to him, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots;
 12. and he will appoint them to him for captains of thousands, and captains of fifties; and he will assign some to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to create his instruments of war, and the instruments of his chariots.
 13. He will grab your daughters to be perfumers, and to be cooks, and to be bakers.
 14. He will grab your fields, and your vineyards, and your olive groves, even their best, and hook it up them to his servants.
 15. He will grab the tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards, and hook it up to his officers, and to his servants.
 16. He will grab your male servants, and your female servants, and your best young men, and your donkeys, and put them to his work.
 17. He will grab the tenth of your flocks: and ya shall be his servants.
 18. ya shall cry out in that day cuz of your ruler whom ya shall have chosen ya; and Yahweh won't answer ya in that day.”
 19. But the people refused to listen up to the voice of Samuel; and they said, “No; but we will have a ruler over us,
 20. that we also may be like all the nations, and that our ruler may judge us, and slide out before us, and fight our battles.”
 21. Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Yahweh.
 22. Yahweh said to Samuel, “listen up to their voice, and create them a ruler.” Samuel said to the men of Israel, “Every man slide to his city.”
