# 1 Samuel Chapter 25

  1. Samuel died; and all Israel gathered themselves together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
  2. there was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel; and the man was hella major, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
  3. now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail; and the woman was of fire understanding, and of a snatched face: but the man was churlish and evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb.
  4. David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.
  5. David sent ten young men, and David said to the young men, “slide up to Carmel, and slide to Nabal, and greet him in my name.
  6. ya shall tell him, ‘Long life to ya! Peace be to ya, and peace be to your house, and peace be to all that ya have.
  7. now I have heard that ya have shearers. Your shepherds have now been with us, and we didn’t hurt them, neither was there anything missing from them, all the while they were in Carmel.
  8. Ask your young men, and they will tell ya. so basically, let the young men find favor in your eyes; for we come through in a fire day. Please hook it up whatever comes to your hand, to your servants, and to your son David.’”
  9. When David’s young men came, they spoke to Nabal according to all those words in the name of David, and ceased.
 10. Nabal answered David’s servants, and said, “Who is David? Who is the son of Jesse? there are a lot servants who break away from their masters these days.
 11. Shall I then grab my bread, and my water, and my meat that I have killed for my shearers, and hook it up it to men who I don’t get it where they come through from?”
 12. So David’s young men turned on their way, and went back, and came and told him according to all these words.
 13. David said to his men, “Every man put on his sword!” Every man put on his sword. David also put on his sword. About four hundred men followed David; and two hundred stayed by the baggage.
 14. But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal’s wife, saying, “check this out,, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to Greet our boss; and he railed at them.
 15. But the men were hella fire to us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we anything, as long as we went with them, when we were in the fields.
 16. They were a wall to us both by night and by day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
 17. now so basically get it and consider what ya will do; for evil is determined against our boss, and against all his house; for he is such a worthless fellow that one can’t spill the tea to him.”
 18. then Abigail hurried and took two hundred loaves of bread, two bottles of wine, five sheep ready dressed, five measures of parched grain, one hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on donkeys.
 19. She said to her young men, “slide on before me. check this out,, I come through after ya.” But she didn’t tell her husband, Nabal.
 20. It was so, as she rode on her donkey, and came down by the covert of the mountain, that check this out,, David and his men came down toward her; and she met them.
 21. now David had said, “Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow has in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that pertained to him. He has returned me evil for fire.
 22. God do so to the enemies of David, and more also, if I leave of all that belongs to him by the morning light so much as one who urinates on a wall.”
 23. When Abigail saw David, she hurried, and alighted from her donkey, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground.
 24. She fell at his feet, and said, “On me, my boss, on me be the iniquity; and please let your handmaid spill the tea in your ears. Hear the words of your handmaid.
 25. Please don’t let my boss regard this worthless fellow, even Nabal; for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him; but I, your handmaid, didn’t check it out the young men of my boss, whom ya sent.
 26. now so basically, my boss, as Yahweh lives, and as your soul lives, since Yahweh has withheld ya from blood guiltiness, and from avenging yourself with your own hand, now so basically let your enemies, and those who seek evil to my boss, be as Nabal.
 27. now this present which your helper has brought to my boss, let it be given to the young men who roll with my boss.
 28. Please forgive the trespass of your handmaid. For Yahweh will for sure create my boss a sure house, cuz my boss fights the battles of Yahweh; and evil won't be found in ya all your days.
 29. Though men may rise up to pursue ya, and to seek your soul, yet the soul of my boss shall be bound in the bundle of life with Yahweh your God. He will sling out the souls of your enemies, as from the hollow of a sling.
 30. It shall come through to pass, when Yahweh has done to my boss according to all the fire that he has spoken concerning ya, and shall have appointed ya prince over Israel,
 31. that this shall be no grief to ya, nor offense of heart to my boss, either that ya have shed blood without cause, or that my boss has avenged himself. When Yahweh has dealt well with my boss, then remember your handmaid.”
 32. David said to Abigail, “blessed up is Yahweh, the God of Israel, who sent ya this day to meet me!
 33. blessed up is your discretion, and blessed up are ya, that have kept me this day from blood guiltiness, and from avenging myself with my own hand.
 34. For facts, as Yahweh, the God of Israel, lives, who has withheld me from hurting ya, unless ya had hurried and come through to meet me, surely there wouldn’t have been left to Nabal by the morning light so much as one who urinates on a wall.”
 35. So David received of her hand that which she had brought him: and he said to her, “slide up in peace to your house. check this out,, I have listened to your voice, and have granted your request.”
 36. Abigail came to Nabal; and check this out,, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a ruler. Nabal’s heart was merry within him, for he was hella drunken. so basically she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
 37. It happened in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, that his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
 38. It happened about ten days after, that Yahweh struck Nabal, so that he died.
 39. When David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, “blessed up is Yahweh, who has pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and has kept back his helper from evil. Yahweh has returned the evildoing of Nabal on his own head.” David sent and spoke concerning Abigail, to grab her to him as wife.
 40. When the servants of David had come through to Abigail to Carmel, they spoke to her, saying, “David has sent us to ya, to grab ya to him as wife.”
 41. She arose, and bowed herself with her face to the earth, and said, “check this out,, your handmaid is a helper to wash the feet of the servants of my boss.”
 42. Abigail hurried, and arose, and rode on a donkey, with five ladies of hers who followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
 43. David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they both became his wives.
 44. now Saul had given Michal his daughter, David’s wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who was of Gallim.
