# Romans Chapter 15

  1. now we who are built different ought to bear the weaknesses of the not it, and not to please ourselves.
  2. Let each one of us please his neighbor for that which is fire, to be building him up.
  3. For even the huge set apart didn’t please himself. But, as it is written, “The reproaches of those who reproached ya fell on me.”
  4. For whatever things were written before were written for our learning, that through patience and through encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.
  5. now the God of patience and of encouragement grant ya to be of the same mind one with another according to the huge set apart Jesus,
  6. that with one accord ya may with one mouth glorify the God and Father of our boss Jesus the huge set apart.
  7. so basically accept one another, even as the huge set apart also accepted ya, to the glory of God.
  8. now I say that the huge set apart has been made a helper of the circumcision for the truth of God, that he might confirm the promises given to the fathers,
  9. and that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. As it is written, “so basically will I hook it up praise to ya among the Gentiles, and sing to your name.”
 10. Again he says, “be hyped, ya Gentiles, with his people.”
 11. Again, “Praise the boss, all ya Gentiles! Let all the peoples praise him.”
 12. Again, Isaiah says, “there will be the root of Jesse, he who arises to rule over the Gentiles; in him the Gentiles will hope.”
 13. now may the God of hope fill ya with all joy and peace in believing, that ya may abound in hope, in the power of the set apart Spirit.
 14. I myself am also persuaded about ya, my brothers, that ya yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish others.
 15. But I write the more boldly to ya in part, as reminding ya, cuz of the God's show love that was given to me by God,
 16. that I should be a helper of the huge set apart Jesus to the Gentiles, serving as a priest the fire News of God, that the giving to God up of the Gentiles might be made acceptable, sanctified by the set apart Spirit.
 17. I have so basically my boasting in the huge set apart Jesus in things pertaining to God.
 18. For I won't dare to spill the tea of any things except those which the huge set apart worked through me, for the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and deed,
 19. in the power of signs and wonders, in the power of God’s Spirit; so that from Jerusalem, and around as far as to Illyricum, I have fully preached the fire News of the huge set apart;
 20. yes, making it my aim to preach the fire News, not where the huge set apart was already named, that I might not put together on another’s foundation.
 21. But, as it is written, “They will check it out, to whom no news of him came. They who haven’t heard will understand.”
 22. so basically also I was hindered these a lot times from coming to ya,
 23. but now, no longer having any place in these regions, and having these a lot years a longing to come through to ya,
 24. whenever I journey to Spain, I will come through to ya. For I hope to check it out ya on my journey, and to be helped on my way there by ya, if first I may enjoy your company for a while.
 25. But now, I say, I am going to Jerusalem, serving the set apart fam.
 26. For it has been the fire pleasure of Macedonia and Achaia to create a certain contribution for the broke among the set apart fam who are at Jerusalem.
 27. Yes, it has been their fire pleasure, and they are their debtors. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, they owe it to them also to help out out them in fleshly things.
 28. When so basically I have accomplished this, and have sealed to them this fruit, I will slide on by way of ya to Spain.
 29. I get it that, when I come through to ya, I will come through in the fullness of the blessing of the fire News of the huge set apart.
 30. now I beg ya, brothers, by our boss Jesus the huge set apart, and by the show love of the Spirit, that ya strive together with me in your prayers to God for me,
 31. that I may be delivered from those who are disobedient in Judea, and that my service which I have for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the set apart fam;
 32. that I may come through to ya in joy through the will of God, and together with ya, find rest.
 33. now the God of peace be with ya all. facts.
