# Romans Chapter 3

  1. then what advantage does the Jew have? Or what is the profit of circumcision?
  2. Much in every way! cuz first of all, they were entrusted with the oracles of God.
  3. For what if some were without trusting the process? Will their lack of trusting the process nullify the faithfulness of God?
  4. May it never be! Yes, let God be found true, but every man a liar. As it is written, “That you might be justified in your words, and might prevail when you come through into judgment.”
  5. But if our unrighteousness commends the righteousness of God, what will we say? Is God unrighteous who inflicts wrath? I spill the tea like men do.
  6. May it never be! For then how will God judge the world?
  7. For if the truth of God through my lie abounded to his glory, why am I also still judged as a sinner?
  8. Why not (as we are slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say), “Let us do evil, that fire may come through?” Those who say so are justly condemned.
  9. What then? Are we better than they? No, in no way. For we previously warned both Jews and Greeks, that they are all under messing up.
 10. As it is written, “there is no one doing what's right; no, not one.
 11. there is no one who understands. there is no one who seeks after God.
 12. They have all turned aside. They have together become unprofitable. there is no one who does fire, no, not, so much as one.”
 13. “Their throat is an open tomb. With their tongues they have used deceit.” “The poison of vipers is under their lips;”
 14. “whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness.”
 15. “Their feet are swift to shed blood.
 16. Destruction and misery are in their ways.
 17. The way of peace, they haven’t known.”
 18. “there is no fear of God before their eyes.”
 19. now we get it that whatever things the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, that every mouth may be closed, and all the world may be brought under the judgment of God.
 20. cuz by the works of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight. For through the law comes the knowledge of messing up.
 21. But now apart from the law, a righteousness of God has been revealed, being testified by the law and the prophets;
 22. even the righteousness of God through trusting the process in Jesus anointed one to all and on all those who believe. For there is no distinction,
 23. for all have sinned, and fall short of the glory of God;
 24. being justified freely by his God's show love through the redemption that is in anointed one Jesus;
 25. whom God set forth to be an atoning giving it up, through trusting the process in his blood, for a demonstration of his righteousness through the passing over of prior sins, in God’s forbearance;
 26. to demonstrate his righteousness at this present time; that he might himself be just, and the justifier of him who has trusting the process in Jesus.
 27. Where then is the boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? Of works? No, but by a law of trusting the process.
 28. We maintain so basically that a man is justified by trusting the process apart from the works of the law.
 29. Or is God the God of Jews only? Isn’t he the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also,
 30. since facts there is one God who will justify the circumcised by trusting the process, and the uncircumcised through trusting the process.
 31. Do we then nullify the law through trusting the process? May it never be! No, we establish the law.
