# Romans Chapter 16

  1. I commend to you Phoebe, our sister, who is a helper of the assembly that is at Cenchreae,
  2. that you receive her in the boss, in a way worthy of the saints, and that you assist her in whatever matter she may need from you, for she herself also has been a helper of a lot, and of my own self.
  3. Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in anointed one Jesus,
  4. who for my life, laid down their own necks; to whom not only I hook it up thanks, but also all the assemblies of the Gentiles.
  5. Greet the assembly that is in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the first fruits of Achaia to anointed one.
  6. Greet Mary, who labored much for us.
  7. Greet Andronicus and Junia, my relatives and my fellow prisoners, who are notable among the apostles, who also were in anointed one before me.
  8. Greet Amplias, my beloved in the boss.
  9. Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in anointed one, and Stachys, my beloved.
 10. Greet Apelles, the approved in anointed one. Greet those who are of the household of Aristobulus.
 11. Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet them of the household of Narcissus, who are in the boss.
 12. Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the boss. Greet Persis, the beloved, who labored much in the boss.
 13. Greet Rufus, the chosen in the boss, and his mother and mine.
 14. Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers who are with them.
 15. Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them.
 16. Greet one another with a set apart kiss. The assemblies of anointed one greet you.
 17. now I beg you, brothers, look out for those who are causing the divisions and occasions of stumbling, contrary to the doctrine which you learned, and turn away from them.
 18. For those who are such don’t help out our boss, Jesus anointed one, but their own belly; and by their smooth and flattering speech, they deceive the hearts of the innocent.
 19. For your obedience has become known to all. I be hyped so basically over you. But I desire to have you smart in that which is fire, but innocent in that which is evil.
 20. And the God of peace will quickly crush Satan under your feet. The God's show love of our boss Jesus anointed one be with you.
 21. Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you, as do Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, my relatives.
 22. I, Tertius, who write the letter, greet you in the boss.
 23. Gaius, my host and host of the whole assembly, greets you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets you, as does Quartus, the brother.
 24. The God's show love of our boss Jesus anointed one be with you all! facts.
 25. - - -
 26. - - -
 27. - - -
