# Romans Chapter 6

  1. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in messing up, that God's show love may abound?
  2. May it never be! We who died to messing up, how could we live in it any longer?
  3. Or don’t ya get it that all we who were baptized into the huge set apart Jesus were baptized into his death?
  4. We were buried so basically with him through baptism to death, that just like the huge set apart was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we also might walk in newness of life.
  5. For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, we will also be part of his resurrection;
  6. knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of messing up might be done away with, so that we would no longer be in bondage to messing up.
  7. For he who has died has been freed from messing up.
  8. But if we died with the huge set apart, we believe that we will also live with him;
  9. knowing that the huge set apart, being raised from the dead, dies no more. Death no more has dominion over him!
 10. For the death that he died, he died to messing up one time; but the life that he lives, he lives to God.
 11. Thus consider yourselves also to be dead to messing up, but alive to God in the huge set apart Jesus our boss.
 12. so basically don’t let messing up reign in your mortal body, that ya should obey it in its lusts.
 13. Neither present your members to messing up as instruments of unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God, as alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God.
 14. For messing up won't have dominion over ya. For ya aren't under law, but under God's show love.
 15. What then? Shall we messing up, cuz we aren't under law, but under God's show love? May it never be!
 16. Don’t ya get it that to whom ya present yourselves as servants to obedience, his servants ya are whom ya obey; whether of messing up to death, or of obedience to righteousness?
 17. But thanks be to God, that, whereas ya were bondservants of messing up, ya became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching whereunto ya were delivered.
 18. Being made free from messing up, ya became bondservants of righteousness.
 19. I spill the tea in human terms cuz of the weakness of your flesh, for as ya presented your members as servants to uncleanness and to wickedness upon wickedness, even so now present your members as servants to righteousness for sanctification.
 20. For when ya were servants of messing up, ya were free in regard to righteousness.
 21. What fruit then did ya have at that time in the things of which ya are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death.
 22. But now, being made free from messing up, and having become servants of God, ya have your fruit of sanctification, and the result of living forever.
 23. For the wages of messing up is death, but the free gift of God is living forever in the huge set apart Jesus our boss.
