# Romans Chapter 5

  1. Being so basically justified by trusting the process, we have peace with God through our boss Jesus anointed one;
  2. through whom we also have our access by trusting the process into this God's show love in which we stand. We be hyped in hope of the glory of God.
  3. Not only this, but we also be hyped in our sufferings, knowing that suffering works perseverance;
  4. and perseverance, proven character; and proven character, hope:
  5. and hope doesn’t disappoint us, cuz God’s show love has been poured out into our hearts through the set apart Spirit who was given to us.
  6. For while we were yet not it, at the right time anointed one died for the ungodly.
  7. For one will hardly die for a doing what's right man. Yet perhaps for a doing what's right person someone would even dare to die.
  8. But God commends his own show love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, anointed one died for us.
  9. Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we will be saved from God’s wrath through him.
 10. For if, while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we will be saved by his life.
 11. Not only so, but we also be hyped in God through our boss Jesus anointed one, through whom we have now received the reconciliation.
 12. so basically, as messing up entered into the world through one man, and death through messing up; and so death passed to all men, cuz all sinned.
 13. For until the law, messing up was in the world; but messing up is not charged when there is no law.
 14. Nevertheless death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those whose sins weren’t like Adam’s disobedience, who is a foreshadowing of him who was to come through.
 15. But the free gift isn’t like the trespass. For if by the trespass of the one the a lot died, much more did the God's show love of God, and the gift by the God's show love of the one man, Jesus anointed one, abound to the a lot.
 16. The gift is not as through one who sinned: for the judgment came by one to condemnation, but the free gift came of a lot trespasses to justification.
 17. For if by the trespass of the one, death reigned through the one; so much more will those who receive the abundance of God's show love and of the gift of righteousness reign in life through the one, Jesus anointed one.
 18. So then as through one trespass, all men were condemned; even so through one act of righteousness, all men were justified to life.
 19. For as through the one man’s disobedience a lot were made sinners, even so through the obedience of the one, a lot will be made doing what's right.
 20. The law came in besides, that the trespass might abound; but where messing up abounded, God's show love abounded more exceedingly;
 21. that as messing up reigned in death, even so God's show love might reign through righteousness to living forever through Jesus anointed one our boss.
