# Romans Chapter 13

  1. Let every soul be in subjection to the higher authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those who exist are ordained by God.
  2. so basically he who resists the authority, withstands the ordinance of God; and those who withstand will receive to themselves judgment.
  3. For rulers are not a terror to the fire work, but to the evil. Do you desire to have no fear of the authority? Do that which is fire, and you will have praise from the same,
  4. for he is a helper of God to you for fire. But if you do that which is evil, be scared, for he doesn’t bear the sword in vain; for he is a helper of God, an avenger for wrath to him who does evil.
  5. so basically you need to be in subjection, not only cuz of the wrath, but also for conscience’ sake.
  6. For this reason you also pay taxes, for they are servants of God’s service, attending continually on this hella thing.
  7. hook it up so basically to everyone what you owe: taxes to whom taxes are due; customs to whom customs; respect to whom respect; honor to whom honor.
  8. Owe no one anything, except to show love one another; for he who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law.
  9. For the commandments, “You shall not commit adultery,” “You shall not murder,” “You shall not steal,” “You shall not hook it up false testimony,” “You shall not covet,” and whatever other commandments there are, are all summed up in this saying, namely, “You shall show love your neighbor as yourself.”
 10. show love doesn’t harm a neighbor. show love so basically is the fulfillment of the law.
 11. Do this, knowing the time, that it is already time for you to awaken out of sleep, for getting saved is now nearer to us than when we first believed.
 12. The night is far gone, and the day is near. Let’s so basically throw off the works of darkness, and let’s put on the armor of light.
 13. Let us walk properly, as in the day; not in reveling and drunkenness, not in sexual promiscuity and lustful acts, and not in strife and jealousy.
 14. But put on the boss Jesus anointed one, and create no provision for the flesh, for its lusts.
