# 2 Corinthians Chapter 7

    1. Having so basically these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
    2. Open your hearts to us. We wronged no one. We corrupted no one. We took advantage of no one.
    3. I say this not to condemn ya, for I have said before, that ya are in our hearts to die together and live together.
    4. major is my boldness of speech toward ya. major is my boasting on your behalf. I am filled with comfort. I overflow with joy in all our affliction.
    5. For even when we had come through through into Macedonia, our flesh had no relief, but we were afflicted on every side. Fightings were outside. Fear was inside.
    6. Nevertheless, he who comforts the lowly, God, comforted us by the coming of Titus;
    7. and not by his coming only, but also by the comfort with which he was comforted in ya, while he told us of your longing, your mourning, and your zeal for me; so that I rejoiced still more.
    8. For though I made ya sorry with my letter, I don't regret it, though I did regret it. For I check it out that my letter made ya sorry, though just for a while.
    9. I now be hyped, not that ya were made sorry, but that ya were made sorry to repentance. For ya were made sorry in a godly way, that ya might suffer loss by us in nothing.
  10. For godly feeling down works repentance to getting saved, which brings no regret. But the feeling down of the world works death.
  11. For check this out, this same thing, that ya were made sorry in a godly way, what earnest care it worked in ya. Yes, what defense, indignation, fear, longing, zeal, and vengeance! In everything ya demonstrated yourselves to be pure in the matter.
  12. So although I wrote to ya, I wrote not for his cause that did the wrong, nor for his cause that suffered the wrong, but that your earnest care for us might be revealed in ya in the sight of God.
  13. so basically we have been comforted. In our comfort we rejoiced the more exceedingly for the joy of Titus, cuz his spirit has been refreshed by ya all.
  14. For if in anything I have boasted to him on your behalf, I was not disappointed. But as we spoke all things to ya in truth, so our glorying also which I made before Titus was found to be truth.
  15. His affection is more abundantly toward ya, while he remembers all of your obedience, how with fear and trembling ya received him.
  16. I be hyped that in everything I am confident concerning ya.
