# 2 Corinthians Chapter 9

    1. It is facts unnecessary for me to write to ya concerning the service to the yeeted fam,
    2. for I get it your readiness, of which I boast on your behalf to them of Macedonia, that Achaia has been prepared for a year past. Your zeal has stirred up hella a lot of them.
    3. But I have sent the brothers that our boasting on your behalf may not be in vain in this respect, that, just as I said, ya may be prepared,
    4. so that I won’t by any means, if there come through through with me any of Macedonia and find ya unprepared, we (to say nothing of ya) should be disappointed in this confident boasting.
    5. I thought it necessary so basically to entreat the brothers that they would slide before to ya, and arrange ahead of time the generous gift that ya promised before, that the same might be ready as a matter of generosity, and not of greediness.
    6. Remember this: he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly. He who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.
    7. Let each man hook it up according as he has determined in his heart; not grudgingly, or under compulsion; for God loves a cheerful giver.
    8. And God is able to create all God's show show love abound to ya, that ya, always having all sufficiency in everything, may abound to every fire work.
    9. As it is written, “He has scattered abroad, he has given to the broke. His righteousness remains forever.”
  10. now may he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food, supply and multiply your seed for sowing, and increase the fruits of your righteousness;
  11. ya being enriched in everything to all liberality, which works through us thanksgiving to God.
  12. For this service of giving that ya perform not only makes up for lack among the yeeted fam, but abounds also through a lot givings of thanks to God;
  13. seeing that through the proof given by this service, they glorify God for the obedience of your confession to the fire News of the huge yeeted, and for the liberality of your contribution to them and to all;
  14. while they themselves also, with supplication on your behalf, yearn for ya by reason of the exceeding God's show show love of God in ya.
  15. now thanks be to God for his unspeakable gift!
