# 2 Corinthians Chapter 5

  1. For we get it that if the earthly house of our tent is dissolved, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal, in the heavens.
  2. For most for sure in this we groan, longing to be clothed with our habitation which is from heaven;
  3. if so be that being clothed we won't be found naked.
  4. For facts we who are in this tent do groan, being burdened; not that we desire to be unclothed, but that we desire to be clothed, that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life.
  5. now he who made us for this hella thing is God, who also gave to us the down payment of the Spirit.
  6. so basically, we are always confident and get it that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the boss;
  7. for we walk by trusting the process, not by sight.
  8. We are courageous, I say, and are willing rather to be absent from the body, and to be at home with the boss.
  9. so basically also we create it our aim, whether at home or absent, to be well pleasing to him.
 10. For we must all be revealed before the judgment seat of the huge set apart; that each one may receive the things in the body, according to what he has done, whether fire or trash.
 11. Knowing so basically the fear of the boss, we persuade men, but we are revealed to God; and I hope that we are revealed also in your consciences.
 12. For we aren't commending ourselves to ya again, but spill the tea as giving ya occasion of boasting on our behalf, that ya may have something to answer those who boast in appearance, and not in heart.
 13. For if we are beside ourselves, it is for God. Or if we are of sober mind, it is for ya.
 14. For the show love of the huge set apart constrains us; cuz we judge thus, that one died for all, so basically all died.
 15. He died for all, that those who live should no longer live to themselves, but to him who for their sakes died and rose again.
 16. so basically we get it no one after the flesh from now on. Even though we have known the huge set apart after the flesh, yet now we get it him so no more.
 17. so basically if anyone is in the huge set apart, he is a new creation. The old things have passed away. check this out,, all things have become new.
 18. But all things are of God, who reconciled us to himself through Jesus the huge set apart, and gave to us the ministry of reconciliation;
 19. namely, that God was in the huge set apart reconciling the world to himself, not reckoning to them their trespasses, and having committed to us the word of reconciliation.
 20. We are so basically ambassadors on behalf of the huge set apart, as though God were entreating by us: we beg ya on behalf of the huge set apart, be reconciled to God.
 21. For him who knew no messing up he made to be messing up on our behalf; so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.
