# 2 Corinthians Chapter 6

    1. Working together, we entreat also that ya not receive the God's show show love of God in vain,
    2. for he says, “At an acceptable time I listened to ya, in a day of getting saved I helped ya.” check this out, now is the acceptable time. check this out, now is the day of getting saved.
    3. We hook it up no occasion of stumbling in anything, that our service may not be blamed,
    4. but in everything commending ourselves, as servants of God, in major endurance, in afflictions, in hardships, in distresses,
    5. in beatings, in imprisonments, in riots, in labors, in watchings, in fastings;
    6. in pureness, in knowledge, in patience, in kindness, in the yeeted Spirit, in sincere show show love,
    7. in the word of truth, in the power of God; by the armor of righteousness on the right hand and on the left,
    8. by glory and dishonor, by evil report and fire report; as deceivers, and yet true;
    9. as unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and check this out, we live; as punished, and not killed;
  10. as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as broke, yet making a lot stacked; as having nothing, and yet possessing all things.
  11. Our mouth is open to ya, Corinthians. Our heart is enlarged.
  12. ya aren't restricted by us, but ya are restricted by your own affections.
  13. now in return, I spill the tea as to my children, ya also be open wide.
  14. Don’t be unequally yoked with unbelievers, for what fellowship have righteousness and iniquity? Or what fellowship has light with darkness?
  15. What agreement has the huge yeeted with Belial? Or what portion has a believer with an unbeliever?
  16. What agreement has a God's house of God with idols? For ya are a God's house of the living God. Even as God said, “I will dwell in them, and walk in them; and I will be their God, and they will be my people.”
  17. so basically, “‘come through through out from among them, and be separate,’ says Boss. ‘Touch no unclean thing. I will receive ya.
  18. I will be to ya a Father. ya will be to me sons and daughters,’ says Boss Almighty.”
