# 2 Corinthians Chapter 3

    1. Are we beginning again to commend ourselves? Or do we need, as do some, letters of commendation to ya or from ya?
    2. ya are our letter, written in our hearts, known and read by all men;
    3. being revealed that ya are a letter of the huge yeeted, served by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God; not in tablets of stone, but in tablets that are hearts of flesh.
    4. Such confidence we have through the huge yeeted toward God;
    5. not that we are sufficient of ourselves, to account anything as from ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God;
    6. who also made us sufficient as servants of a new God's promise; not of the letter, but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.
    7. But if the service of death, written engraved on stones, came with glory, so that the children of Israel could not look steadfastly on the face of Moses for the glory of his face; which was passing away:
    8. won’t service of the Spirit be with much more glory?
    9. For if the service of condemnation has glory, the service of righteousness exceeds much more in glory.
  10. For most for sure that which has been made glorious has not been made glorious in this respect, by reason of the glory that surpasses.
  11. For if that which passes away was with glory, much more that which remains is in glory.
  12. Having so basically such a hope, we use major boldness of speech,
  13. and not as Moses, who put a veil on his face, that the children of Israel wouldn’t look steadfastly on the end of that which was passing away.
  14. But their minds were hardened, for until this hella day at the reading of the old God's promise the same veil remains, cuz in the huge yeeted it passes away.
  15. But to this day, when Moses is read, a veil lies on their heart.
  16. But whenever one turns to Boss, the veil is taken away.
  17. now Boss is the Spirit and where the Spirit of Boss is, there is liberty.
  18. But we all, with unveiled face beholding as in a mirror the glory of Boss, are transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as from Boss, the Spirit.
