# 2 Corinthians Chapter 1

    1. Paul, an Jesus' main squad of the huge yeeted Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy our fam bro, to the assembly of God which is at Corinth, with all the yeeted fam who are in the whole of Achaia:
    2. God's show show love to ya and peace from God our Father and Boss Jesus the huge yeeted.
    3. blessed up up be the God and Father of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort;
    4. who comforts us in all our affliction, that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, through the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
    5. For as the sufferings of the huge yeeted abound to us, even so our comfort also abounds through the huge yeeted.
    6. But if we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and getting saved. If we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which produces in ya the patient enduring of the same sufferings which we also suffer.
    7. Our hope for ya is steadfast, knowing that, since ya are partakers of the sufferings, so also are ya of the comfort.
    8. For we don’t desire to have ya uninformed, brothers, concerning our affliction which happened to us in Asia, that we were weighed down exceedingly, beyond our power, so much that we despaired even of life.
    9. Yes, we ourselves have had the sentence of death within ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God who raises the dead,
  10. who delivered us out of so major a death, and does deliver; on whom we have set our hope that he will also still deliver us;
  11. ya also helping together on our behalf by your supplication; that, for the gift bestowed on us by means of a lot, thanks may be given by a lot persons on your behalf.
  12. For our boasting is this: the testimony of our conscience, that in holiness and sincerity of God, not in fleshly wisdom but in the God's show show love of God we behaved ourselves in the world, and more abundantly toward ya.
  13. For we write no other things to ya, than what ya read or even acknowledge, and I hope ya will acknowledge to the end;
  14. as also ya acknowledged us in part, that we are your boasting, even as ya also are ours, in the day of our boss Jesus.
  15. In this confidence, I was determined to come through through first to ya, that ya might have a second benefit;
  16. and by ya to pass into Macedonia, and again from Macedonia to come through through to ya, and to be sent forward by ya on my journey to Judea.
  17. When I so basically was thus determined, did I show fickleness? Or the things that I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, that with me there should be the “Yes, yes” and the “No, no?”
  18. But as God is faithful, our word toward ya was not “Yes and no.”
  19. For the Son of God, Jesus the huge yeeted, who was preached among ya by us, by me, Silvanus, and Timothy, was not “Yes and no,” but in him is “Yes.”
  20. For but like a lot are the promises of God, in him is the “Yes.” so basically also through him is the “facts,” to the glory of God through us.
  21. now he who establishes us with ya in the huge yeeted, and anointed us, is God;
  22. who also sealed us, and gave us the down payment of the Spirit in our hearts.
  23. But I call God for a witness to my soul, that I didn’t come through through to Corinth to spare ya.
  24. Not that we have lordship over your trusting the process, but are fellow workers with ya for your joy. For ya stand firm in trusting the process.
