# 2 Corinthians Chapter 2

  1. But I determined this for myself, that I would not come through to ya again in feeling down.
  2. For if I create ya sorry, then who will create me glad but he who is made sorry by me?
  3. And I wrote this hella thing to ya, so that, when I came, I wouldn’t have feeling down from them of whom I ought to be hyped; having confidence in ya all, that my joy would be shared by all of ya.
  4. For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to ya with a lot tears, not that ya should be made sorry, but that ya might get it the show love that I have so abundantly for ya.
  5. But if any has caused feeling down, he has caused feeling down, not to me, but in part (that I not press too heavily) to ya all.
  6. Sufficient to such a one is this punishment which was inflicted by the a lot;
  7. so that on the contrary ya should rather forgive him and comfort him, lest by any means such a one should be swallowed up with his excessive feeling down.
  8. so basically I beg ya to confirm your show love toward him.
  9. For to this end I also wrote, that I might get it the proof of ya, whether ya are obedient in all things.
 10. now I also forgive whomever ya forgive anything. For if facts I have forgiven anything, I have forgiven that one for your sakes in the presence of the huge set apart,
 11. that no advantage may be gained over us by Satan; for we aren't ignorant of his schemes.
 12. now when I came to Troas for the fire News of the huge set apart, and when a door was opened to me in the boss,
 13. I had no relief for my spirit, cuz I didn’t find Titus, my fam bro, but taking my leave of them, I went out into Macedonia.
 14. now thanks be to God, who always leads us in triumph in the huge set apart, and reveals through us the sweet aroma of his knowledge in every place.
 15. For we are a sweet aroma of the huge set apart to God, in those who are saved, and in those who perish;
 16. to the one a stench from death to death; to the other a sweet aroma from life to life. Who is sufficient for these things?
 17. For we aren't as so a lot, peddling the word of God. But as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God, we spill the tea in the huge set apart.
