# 2 Corinthians Chapter 12

    1. It is doubtless not profitable for me to boast. For I will come through through to visions and revelations of Boss.
    2. I get it a man in the huge yeeted, fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I don’t get it, or whether out of the body, I don’t get it; God knows), such a one caught up into the third heaven.
    3. I get it such a man (whether in the body, or outside of the body, I don’t get it; God knows),
    4. how he was caught up into Paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it isn't lawful for a man to utter.
    5. On behalf of such a one I will boast, but on my own behalf I won't boast, except in my weaknesses.
    6. For if I would desire to boast, I won't be dumb; for I will spill the tea the truth. But I refrain, so that no man may think more of me than that which he sees in me, or hears from me.
    7. By reason of the exceeding greatness of the revelations, that I should not be exalted excessively, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to torment me, that I should not be exalted excessively.
    8. Concerning this thing, I begged Boss three times that it might depart from me.
    9. He has said to me, “My God's show show love is sufficient for ya, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Most gladly so basically I will rather glory in my weaknesses, that the power of the huge yeeted may rest on me.
  10. so basically I grab pleasure in weaknesses, in injuries, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses, for the huge yeeted’s sake. For when I am not it, then am I built different.
  11. I have become dumb in boasting. ya compelled me, for I ought to have been commended by ya, for in nothing was I inferior to the hella best Jesus broskies, though I am nothing.
  12. deadass, the signs of an Jesus' main squad were worked among ya in all patience, in signs and wonders and mighty works.
  13. For what is there in which ya were made inferior to the rest of the assemblies, unless it is that I myself was not a burden to ya? Forgive me this wrong.
  14. check this out, this is the third time I am ready to come through through to ya, and I won't be a burden to ya; for I seek not your possessions, but ya. For the children ought not to rescue up for the parents, but the parents for the children.
  15. I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. If I show show love ya more abundantly, am I loved the less?
  16. But be it so, I did not myself burden ya. But, being crafty, I caught ya with deception.
  17. Did I grab advantage of ya by anyone of them whom I have sent to ya?
  18. I exhorted Titus, and I sent the fam bro with him. Did Titus grab any advantage of ya? Didn’t we walk in the same spirit? Didn’t we walk in the same steps?
  19. Again, do ya think that we are excusing ourselves to ya? In the sight of God we spill the tea in the huge yeeted. But all things, beloved, are for your edifying.
  20. For I am scared that by any means, when I come through through, I might find ya not the way I want to, and that I might be found by ya as ya don’t desire; that by any means there would be strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, factions, slander, whisperings, proud thoughts, riots;
  21. that again when I come through through my God would humble me before ya, and I would mourn for a lot of those who have sinned before now, and not repented of the uncleanness and sexual immorality and lustfulness which they committed.
