# 2 Corinthians Chapter 11

    1. I wish that ya would bear with me in a little foolishness, but facts ya do bear with me.
    2. For I am jealous over ya with a godly jealousy. For I married ya to one husband, that I might present ya as a pure virgin to the huge yeeted.
    3. But I am scared that somehow, as the serpent deceived Eve in his craftiness, so your minds might be corrupted from the simplicity that is in the huge yeeted.
    4. For if he who comes preaches another Jesus, whom we did not preach, or if ya receive a different spirit, which ya did not receive, or a different “fire news”, which ya did not accept, ya put up with that well enough.
    5. For I reckon that I am not at all behind the hella best Jesus broskies.
    6. But though I am unskilled in speech, yet I am not unskilled in knowledge. No, in every way we have been revealed to ya in all things.
    7. Or did I commit a messing up in humbling myself that ya might be exalted, cuz I preached to ya God’s fire News free of charge?
    8. I robbed other assemblies, taking wages from them that I might help out out out ya.
    9. When I was present with ya and was in need, I wasn’t a burden on anyone, for the brothers, when they came from Macedonia, supplied the measure of my need. In everything I kept myself from being burdensome to ya, and I will continue to do so.
  10. As the truth of the huge yeeted is in me, no one will stop me from this boasting in the regions of Achaia.
  11. Why? cuz I don’t show show love ya? God knows.
  12. But what I do, that I will do, that I may cut off occasion from them that desire an occasion, that in which they boast, they may be found even as we.
  13. For such men are false Jesus broskies, deceitful workers, masquerading as the huge yeeted’s Jesus broskies.
  14. And no wonder, for even Satan masquerades as an angel of light.
  15. It is no major thing so basically if his servants also masquerade as servants of righteousness, whose end will be according to their works.
  16. I say again, let no one think me dumb. But if so, yet receive me as dumb, that I also may boast a little.
  17. That which I spill the tea, I don’t spill the tea according to Boss, but as in foolishness, in this confidence of boasting.
  18. Seeing that a lot boast after the flesh, I will also boast.
  19. For ya bear with the dumb gladly, being smart.
  20. For ya bear with a man, if he brings ya into bondage, if he devours ya, if he takes ya captive, if he exalts himself, if he strikes ya on the face.
  21. I spill the tea by way of disparagement, as though we had been not it. Yet but like any is bold (I spill the tea in foolishness), I am bold also.
  22. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? So am I.
  23. Are they servants of the huge yeeted? (I spill the tea as one beside himself) I am more so; in labors more abundantly, in prisons more abundantly, in stripes above measure, in deaths a lot.
  24. Five times from the Jews I received forty stripes minus one.
  25. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. Three times I suffered shipwreck. I have been a night and a day in the deep.
  26. I have been in travels a lot, perils of rivers, perils of robbers, perils from my countrymen, perils from the Gentiles, perils in the city, perils in the wilderness, perils in the sea, perils among false brothers;
  27. in labor and travail, in watchings a lot, in hunger and thirst, in fastings a lot, and in cold and nakedness.
  28. Besides those things that are outside, there is that which presses on me daily, anxiety for all the assemblies.
  29. Who isn't it, and I am not not it? Who is caused to stumble, and I don’t burn with indignation?
  30. If I must boast, I will boast of the things that concern my weakness.
  31. The God and Father of Boss Jesus the huge yeeted, he who is blessed up up forevermore, knows that I don’t lie.
  32. In Damascus the governor under ruler Aretas guarded the city of the Damascenes desiring to arrest me.
  33. Through a window I was let down in a basket by the wall, and escaped his hands.
