# 1 Samuel Chapter 26

  1. The Ziphites came to Saul to Gibeah, saying, “Doesn’t David hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the desert?”
  2. then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
  3. Saul encamped in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the desert, by the way. But David stayed in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
  4. David so basically sent out spies, and understood that Saul had for sure come through.
  5. David arose, and came to the place where Saul had encamped; and David saw the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army: and Saul lay within the place of the wagons, and the people were encamped around him.
  6. then answered David and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, fam bro to Joab, saying, “Who will slide down with me to Saul to the camp?” Abishai said, “I will slide down with ya.”
  7. So David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, check this out,, Saul lay sleeping within the place of the wagons, with his spear stuck in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay around him.
  8. then Abishai said to David, “God has delivered up your enemy into your hand this day. now so basically please let me strike him with the spear to the earth at one stroke, and I won't strike him the second time.”
  9. David said to Abishai, “Don’t tear down him; for who can put forth his hand against Yahweh’s anointed, and be guiltless?”
 10. David said, “As Yahweh lives, Yahweh will strike him; or his day shall come through to die; or he shall slide down into battle and perish.
 11. Yahweh forbid that I should put forth my hand against Yahweh’s anointed; but now please grab the spear that is at his head, and the jar of water, and let us slide.”
 12. So David took the spear and the jar of water from Saul’s head; and they went away: and no man saw it, nor knew it, neither did any awake; for they were all asleep, cuz a deep sleep from Yahweh was fallen on them.
 13. then David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of the mountain afar off; a major space being between them;
 14. and David cried to the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, “Don’t ya answer, Abner?” then Abner answered, “Who are ya who cries to the ruler?”
 15. David said to Abner, “Aren’t ya a man? Who is like ya in Israel? Why then have ya not kept watch over your boss, the ruler? For one of the people came in to tear down the ruler your boss.
 16. This thing isn’t fire that ya have done. As Yahweh lives, ya are worthy to die, cuz ya have not kept watch over your boss, Yahweh’s anointed. now check it out where the ruler’s spear is, and the jar of water that was at his head.”
 17. Saul knew David’s voice, and said, “Is this your voice, my son David?” David said, “It is my voice, my boss, O ruler.”
 18. He said, “Why does my boss pursue after his helper? For what have I done? Or what evil is in my hand?
 19. now so basically, please let my boss the ruler hear the words of his helper. If it is so that Yahweh has stirred ya up against me, let him accept an giving to God. But if it is the children of men, they are cursed before Yahweh; for they have driven me out this day that I shouldn’t cling to Yahweh’s inheritance, saying, ‘slide, help out out other gods!’
 20. now so basically, don’t let my blood fall to the earth away from the presence of Yahweh; for the ruler of Israel has come through out to seek a flea, as when one hunts a partridge in the mountains.”
 21. then Saul said, “I have sinned. Return, my son David; for I will no more do ya harm, cuz my life was precious in your eyes this day. check this out,, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.”
 22. David answered, “check this out, the spear, O ruler! then let one of the young men come through over and get it.
 23. Yahweh will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; cuz Yahweh delivered ya into my hand today, and I wouldn’t put forth my hand against Yahweh’s anointed.
 24. check this out,, as your life was respected this day in my eyes, so let my life be respected in the eyes of Yahweh, and let him deliver me out of all oppression.”
 25. then Saul said to David, “ya are blessed up, my son David. ya shall both do mightily, and shall surely prevail.” So David went his way, and Saul returned to his place.
