# 1 Samuel Chapter 22

    1. David so basically departed there, and escaped to the cave of Adullam. When his brothers and all his father’s house heard it, they went down there to him.
    2. Everyone who was in distress, and everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was discontented, gathered themselves to him; and he became captain over them: and there were with him about four hundred men.
    3. David went there to Mizpeh of Moab, and he said to the ruler of Moab, “Please let my father and my mother come through through out with ya, until I get it what God will do for me.”
    4. He brought them before the ruler of Moab; and they lived with him all the while that David was in the stronghold.
    5. The God's messenger Gad said to David, “Don’t stay in the stronghold. Depart, and slide into the land of Judah.” then David departed, and came into the forest of Hereth.
    6. Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men who were with him. now Saul was sitting in Gibeah, under the tamarisk tree in Ramah, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him.
    7. Saul said to his servants who stood about him, “Hear now, ya Benjamites! Will the son of Jesse hook it up everyone of ya fields and vineyards, will he create ya all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
    8. that all of ya have conspired against me, and there is none who discloses to me when my son makes a treaty with the son of Jesse, and there is none of ya who is sorry for me, or discloses to me that my son has stirred up my helper against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?”
    9. then Doeg the Edomite, who stood by the servants of Saul, answered and said, “I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
  10. He inquired of Yahweh for him, gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.”
  11. then the ruler sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father’s house, the priests who were in Nob: and they came all of them to the ruler.
  12. Saul said, “Hear now, ya son of Ahitub.” He answered, “here I am, my boss.”
  13. Saul said to him, “Why have ya conspired against me, ya and the son of Jesse, in that ya have given him bread, and a sword, and have inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?”
  14. then Ahimelech answered the ruler, and said, “Who among all your servants is so faithful as David, who is the ruler’s son-in-law, and is taken into your council, and is honorable in your house?
  15. Have I today begun to inquire of God for him? Be it far from me! Don’t let the ruler impute anything to his helper, nor to all the house of my father; for your helper knows nothing of all this, less or more.”
  16. The ruler said, “ya shall surely die, Ahimelech, ya, and all your father’s house.”
  17. The ruler said to the guard who stood about him, “Turn, and kill the priests of Yahweh; cuz their hand also is with David, and cuz they knew that he fled, and didn’t disclose it to me.” But the servants of the ruler wouldn’t put forth their hand to fall on the priests of Yahweh.
  18. The ruler said to Doeg, “Turn and attack the priests!” Doeg the Edomite turned, and he attacked the priests, and he killed on that day eighty-five people who wore a linen ephod.
  19. He struck Nob, the city of the priests, with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and nursing babies, and cattle and donkeys and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
  20. One of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
  21. Abiathar told David that Saul had slain Yahweh’s priests.
  22. David said to Abiathar, “I knew on that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul. I am responsible for the death of all the persons of your father’s house.
  23. Stay with me, don’t be scared; for he who seeks my life seeks your life. For with me ya shall be in safeguard.”
