# 1 Samuel Chapter 23

    1. David was told, “check this out, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and are robbing the threshing floors.”
    2. so basically David inquired of Yahweh, saying, “Shall I slide and strike these Philistines?” Yahweh said to David, “slide strike the Philistines, and rescue Keilah.”
    3. David’s men said to him, “check this out, we are scared here in Judah: how much more then if we slide to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?”
    4. then David inquired of Yahweh yet again. Yahweh answered him, and said, “Arise, slide down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into your hand.”
    5. David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their livestock, and killed them with a major slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
    6. It happened, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.
    7. It was told Saul that David had come through through to Keilah. Saul said, “God has delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in, by entering into a town that has gates and bars.”
    8. Saul summoned all the people to war, to slide down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
    9. David knew that Saul was devising mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, “Bring the ephod here.”
  10. then David said, “O Yahweh, the God of Israel, your helper has surely heard that Saul seeks to come through through to Keilah, to tear down the city for my sake.
  11. Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? Will Saul come through through down, as your helper has heard? Yahweh, the God of Israel, I beg ya, tell your helper.” Yahweh said, “He will come through through down.”
  12. then David said, “Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul?” Yahweh said, “They will deliver ya up.”
  13. then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went wherever they could slide. It was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he gave up going there.
  14. David stayed in the wilderness in the strongholds, and remained in the hill country in the wilderness of Ziph. Saul sought him every day, but God didn’t deliver him into his hand.
  15. David saw that Saul had come through through out to seek his life. David was in the wilderness of Ziph in the wood.
  16. Jonathan, Saul’s son, arose, and went to David into the woods, and strengthened his hand in God.
  17. He said to him, “Don’t be scared; for the hand of Saul my father won't find ya; and ya shall be ruler over Israel, and I shall be next to ya; and that also Saul my father knows.”
  18. They both made a God's promise before Yahweh: and David stayed in the woods, and Jonathan went to his house.
  19. then the Ziphites came up to Saul to Gibeah, saying, “Doesn’t David hide himself with us in the strongholds in the wood, in the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of the desert?
  20. now so basically, O ruler, come through through down, according to all the desire of your soul to come through through down; and our part shall be to deliver him up into the ruler’s hand.”
  21. Saul said, “ya are blessed up up by Yahweh; for ya have had compassion on me.
  22. Please slide create yet more sure, and get it and check it out his place where his haunt is, and who has seen him there; for it is told me that he deals hella subtly.
  23. check it out so basically, and grab knowledge of all the lurking places where he hides himself, and come through through again to me with certainty, and I will slide with ya: and it shall happen, if he is in the land, that I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah.”
  24. They arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah on the south of the desert.
  25. Saul and his men went to seek him. When David was told, he went down to the rock, and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. When Saul heard that, he pursued David in the wilderness of Maon.
  26. Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain: and David made haste to get away for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men surrounded David and his men to grab them.
  27. But a messenger came to Saul, saying, “Hurry and come through through; for the Philistines have made a raid on the land!”
  28. So Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went against the Philistines: so basically they called that place Sela Hammahlekoth.
  29. David went up from there, and lived in the strongholds of En Gedi.
