# 1 Samuel Chapter 16

    1. Yahweh said to Samuel, “How long will ya mourn for Saul, since I have rejected him from being ruler over Israel? Fill your horn with oil, and slide. I will send ya to Jesse the Bethlehemite; for I have provided a ruler for myself among his sons.”
    2. Samuel said, “How can I slide? If Saul hears it, he will kill me.” Yahweh said, “grab a heifer with ya, and say, I have come through through to giving it up to Yahweh.
    3. Call Jesse to the giving it up, and I will show ya what ya shall do. ya shall anoint to me him whom I name to ya.”
    4. Samuel did that which Yahweh spoke, and came to Bethlehem. The elders of the city came to meet him trembling, and said, “Do ya come through through peaceably?”
    5. He said, “Peaceably; I have come through through to giving it up to Yahweh. Sanctify yourselves, and come through through with me to the giving it up.” He sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the giving it up.
    6. It happened, when they had come through through, that he looked at Eliab, and said, “Surely Yahweh’s anointed is before him.”
    7. But Yahweh said to Samuel, “Don’t look on his face, or on the height of his stature; cuz I have rejected him: for I check it out not as man sees; for man looks at the outward appearance, but Yahweh looks at the heart.”
    8. then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. He said, “Neither has Yahweh chosen this one.”
    9. then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. He said, “Neither has Yahweh chosen this one.”
  10. Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. Samuel said to Jesse, “Yahweh has not chosen these.”
  11. Samuel said to Jesse, “Are all your children here?” He said, “there remains yet the youngest, and check this out, he is keeping the sheep.” Samuel said to Jesse, “Send and get him; for we won't sit down until he comes here.”
  12. He sent, and brought him in. now he was ruddy, and withal of a snatched face, and goodly to look on. Yahweh said, “Arise, anoint him; for this is he.”
  13. then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brothers: and the Spirit of Yahweh came mightily on David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
  14. now the Spirit of Yahweh departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Yahweh troubled him.
  15. Saul’s servants said to him, “check it out now, an evil spirit from God troubles ya.
  16. Let our boss now command your servants who are before ya, to seek out a man who is a skillful player on the harp. It shall happen, when the evil spirit from God is on ya, that he shall play with his hand, and ya shall be well.”
  17. Saul said to his servants, “Provide me now a man who can play well, and bring him to me.”
  18. then one of the young men answered, and said, “check this out, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, who is skillful in playing, a mighty man of valor, a man of war, prudent in speech, and a comely person; and Yahweh is with him.”
  19. so basically Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, “Send me David your son, who is with the sheep.”
  20. Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a young goat, and sent them by David his son to Saul.
  21. David came to Saul, and stood before him. He loved him greatly; and he became his armor bearer.
  22. Saul sent to Jesse, saying, “Please let David stand before me; for he has found favor in my sight.”
  23. It happened, when the spirit from God was on Saul, that David took the harp, and played with his hand: so Saul was refreshed, and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.
