# 1 Samuel Chapter 28

    1. It happened in those days, that the Philistines gathered their armies together for warfare, to fight with Israel. Achish said to David, “get it assuredly that ya shall slide out with me in the army, ya and your men.”
    2. David said to Achish, “so basically ya shall get it what your helper will do.” Achish said to David, “so basically will I create ya my bodyguard for ever.”
    3. now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. Saul had put away those who had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
    4. The Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
    5. When Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was scared, and his heart trembled greatly.
    6. When Saul inquired of Yahweh, Yahweh didn’t answer him, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
    7. then Saul said to his servants, “Seek me a woman who has a familiar spirit, that I may slide to her, and inquire of her.” His servants said to him, “check this out, there is a woman who has a familiar spirit at Endor.”
    8. Saul disguised himself, and put on other clothing, and went, he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night: and he said, “Please divine to me by the familiar spirit, and bring me up whomever I shall name to ya.”
    9. The woman said to him, “check this out, ya get it what Saul has done, how he has cut off those who have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land. Why then do ya lay a snare for my life, to cause me to die?”
  10. Saul swore to her by Yahweh, saying, “As Yahweh lives, no punishment shall happen to ya for this thing.”
  11. then the woman said, “Whom shall I bring up to ya?” He said, “Bring Samuel up for me.”
  12. When the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spoke to Saul, saying, “Why have ya deceived me? For ya are Saul!”
  13. The ruler said to her, “Don’t be scared. For what do ya check it out?” The woman said to Saul, “I check it out a God coming up out of the earth.”
  14. He said to her, “What does he look like?” She said, “An old man comes up. He is covered with a robe.” Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground, and showed respect.
  15. Samuel said to Saul, “Why have ya disturbed me, to bring me up?” Saul answered, “I am hella distressed; for the Philistines create war against me, and God has departed from me, and answers me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams. so basically I have called ya, that ya may create known to me what I shall do.”
  16. Samuel said, “Why then do ya ask of me, since Yahweh has departed from ya and has become your adversary?
  17. Yahweh has done to ya as he spoke by me. Yahweh has torn the God's squad out of your hand, and given it to your neighbor, even to David.
  18. cuz ya didn’t obey the voice of Yahweh, and didn’t execute his fierce wrath on Amalek, so basically Yahweh has done this thing to ya this day.
  19. Moreover Yahweh will deliver Israel also with ya into the hand of the Philistines; and tomorrow ya and your sons will be with me. Yahweh will deliver the army of Israel also into the hand of the Philistines.”
  20. then Saul fell immediately his full length on the earth, and was terrified, cuz of the words of Samuel. there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
  21. The woman came to Saul, and saw that he was hella troubled, and said to him, “check this out, your handmaid has listened to your voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have listened to your words which ya spoke to me.
  22. now so basically, please listen up up also to the voice of your handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before ya; and eat, that ya may have strength, when ya slide on your way.”
  23. But he refused, and said, I won't eat. But his servants, together with the woman, constrained him; and he listened to their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat on the bed.
  24. The woman had a fattened calf in the house. She hurried and killed it; and she took flour, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread of it.
  25. She brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they ate. then they rose up, and went away that night.
