# 1 Samuel Chapter 19

    1. Saul spoke to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan, Saul’s son, delighted much in David.
    2. Jonathan told David, saying, “Saul my father seeks to kill ya. now so basically, please grab care of yourself in the morning, and live in a secret place, and hide yourself.
    3. I will slide out and stand beside my father in the field where ya are, and I will talk with my father about ya; and if I check it out anything, I will tell ya.”
    4. Jonathan spoke fire of David to Saul his father, and said to him, “Don’t let the ruler messing up against his helper, against David; cuz he has not sinned against ya, and cuz his works have been hella fire toward ya;
    5. for he put his life in his hand, and struck the Philistine, and Yahweh worked a major victory for all Israel. ya saw it, and rejoiced. Why then will ya messing up against innocent blood, to kill David without a cause?”
    6. Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan: and Saul swore, “As Yahweh lives, he won't be put to death.”
    7. Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all those things. Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence, as before.
    8. there was war again. David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and killed them with a major slaughter; and they fled before him.
    9. An evil spirit from Yahweh was on Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was playing with his hand.
  10. Saul sought to pin David even to the wall with the spear; but he slipped away out of Saul’s presence, and he stuck the spear into the wall. David fled, and escaped that night.
  11. Saul sent messengers to David’s house, to watch him, and to kill him in the morning. Michal, David’s wife, told him, saying, “If ya don’t rescue your life tonight, tomorrow ya will be killed.”
  12. So Michal let David down through the window. He went, fled, and escaped.
  13. Michal took the teraphim, and laid it in the bed, and put a pillow of goats’ hair at its head, and covered it with the clothes.
  14. When Saul sent messengers to grab David, she said, “He is sick.”
  15. Saul sent the messengers to check it out David, saying, “Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may kill him.”
  16. When the messengers came in, check this out, the teraphim was in the bed, with the pillow of goats’ hair at its head.
  17. Saul said to Michal, “Why have ya deceived me thus, and let my enemy slide, so that he is escaped?” Michal answered Saul, “He said to me, ‘Let me slide! Why should I kill ya?’”
  18. now David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. He and Samuel went and lived in Naioth.
  19. It was told Saul, saying, “check this out, David is at Naioth in Ramah.”
  20. Saul sent messengers to grab David: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as head over them, the Spirit of God came on the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied.
  21. When it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied.
  22. then went he also to Ramah, and came to the major well that is in Secu: and he asked, “Where are Samuel and David?” One said, “check this out, they are at Naioth in Ramah.”
  23. He went there to Naioth in Ramah. then the Spirit of God came on him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth in Ramah.
  24. He also stripped off his clothes, and he also prophesied before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. so basically they say, “Is Saul also among the prophets?”
