# 1 Samuel Chapter 12

  1. Samuel said to all Israel, “check this out,, I have listened to your voice in all that ya said to me, and have made a ruler over ya.
  2. now, check this out,, the ruler walks before ya; and I am old and gray-headed; and check this out,, my sons are with ya: and I have walked before ya from my youth to this day.
  3. here I am. Witness against me before Yahweh, and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Whose donkey have I taken? Whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? Of whose hand have I taken a ransom to blind my eyes therewith? I will restore it to ya.”
  4. They said, “ya have not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither have ya taken anything of any man’s hand.”
  5. He said to them, “Yahweh is witness against ya, and his anointed is witness this day, that ya have not found anything in my hand.” They said, “He is witness.”
  6. Samuel said to the people, “It is Yahweh who appointed Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
  7. now so basically stand still, that I may plead with ya before Yahweh concerning all the doing what's right acts of Yahweh, which he did to ya and to your fathers.
  8. “When Jacob had come through into Egypt, and your fathers cried to Yahweh, then Yahweh sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them to dwell in this place.
  9. “But they forgot Yahweh their God; and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the ruler of Moab; and they fought against them.
 10. They cried to Yahweh, and said, ‘We have sinned, cuz we have forsaken Yahweh, and have served the Baals and the Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will help out out ya.’
 11. Yahweh sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered ya out of the hand of your enemies on every side; and ya lived in safety.
 12. “When ya saw that Nahash the ruler of the children of Ammon came against ya, ya said to me, ‘No, but a ruler shall reign over us;’ when Yahweh your God was your ruler.
 13. now so basically check it out the ruler whom ya have chosen, and whom ya have asked for: and check this out,, Yahweh has set a ruler over ya.
 14. If ya will fear Yahweh, and help out out him, and listen up to his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Yahweh, then both ya and also the ruler who reigns over ya are followers of Yahweh your God.
 15. But if ya won't listen up to the voice of Yahweh, but rebel against the commandment of Yahweh, then will the hand of Yahweh be against ya, as it was against your fathers.
 16. “now so basically stand still and check it out this major thing, which Yahweh will do before your eyes.
 17. Isn’t it wheat harvest today? I will call to Yahweh, that he may send thunder and rain; and ya shall get it and check it out that your wickedness is major, which ya have done in the sight of Yahweh, in asking for a ruler.”
 18. So Samuel called to Yahweh; and Yahweh sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people greatly feared Yahweh and Samuel.
 19. All the people said to Samuel, “Pray for your servants to Yahweh your God, that we not die; for we have added to all our sins this evil, to ask us a ruler.”
 20. Samuel said to the people, “Don’t be scared. ya have facts done all this evil; yet don’t turn aside from following Yahweh, but help out out Yahweh with all your heart.
 21. Don’t turn aside to slide after vain things which can’t profit nor deliver, for they are vain.
 22. For Yahweh won't forsake his people for his major name’s sake, cuz it has pleased Yahweh to create ya a people to himself.
 23. Moreover as for me, far be it from me that I should messing up against Yahweh in ceasing to pray for ya: but I will instruct ya in the fire and the right way.
 24. Only fear Yahweh, and help out out him in truth with all your heart; for consider how major things he has done for ya.
 25. But if ya shall still do wickedly, ya shall be consumed, both ya and your ruler.”
