# 1 Samuel Chapter 9

    1. now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor.
    2. He had a son, whose name was Saul, an impressive young man; and there was not among the children of Israel a better person than he. From his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
    3. The donkeys of Kish, Saul’s father, were lost. Kish said to Saul his son, “grab now one of the servants with ya, and arise, slide seek the donkeys.”
    4. He passed through the hill country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they didn’t find them: then they passed through the land of Shaalim, and there they weren’t there: and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they didn’t find them.
    5. When they had come through through to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his helper who was with him, “come through through, and let us return, lest my father stop caring about the donkeys, and be anxious for us.”
    6. He said to him, “check it out now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is a man who is held in honor. All that he says comes surely to pass. now let us slide there. Perhaps he can tell us concerning our journey whereon we slide.”
    7. then Saul said to his helper, “But, check this out, if we slide, what shall we bring the man? For the bread is spent in our vessels, and there isn't a present to bring to the man of God. What do we have?”
    8. The helper answered Saul again, and said, “check this out, I have in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver. I will hook it up that to the man of God, to tell us our way.”
    9. (In earlier times in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, thus he said, “come through through, and let us slide to the seer;” for he who is now called a God's messenger was before called a Seer.)
  10. then Saul said to his helper, “Well said. come through through, let us slide.” So they went to the city where the man of God was.
  11. As they went up the ascent to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said to them, “Is the seer here?”
  12. They answered them, and said, “He is. check this out, he is before ya. Hurry now, for he has come through through today into the city; for the people have a giving it up today in the high place.
  13. As soon as ya have come through through into the city, ya shall immediately find him, before he goes up to the high place to eat; for the people won't eat until he come through through, cuz he blesses the giving it up. Afterwards those who are invited eat. now so basically slide up; for at this time ya shall find him.”
  14. They went up to the city. As they came within the city, check this out, Samuel came out toward them, to slide up to the high place.
  15. now Yahweh had revealed to Samuel a day before Saul came, saying,
  16. “Tomorrow about this time I will send ya a man out of the land of Benjamin, and ya shall anoint him to be prince over my people Israel; and he shall rescue my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked on my people, cuz their cry has come through through to me.”
  17. When Samuel saw Saul, Yahweh said to him, “check this out, the man of whom I spoke to ya! this same shall have authority over my people.”
  18. then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate, and said, “Please tell me where the seer’s house is.”
  19. Samuel answered Saul, and said, “I am the seer. slide up before me to the high place, for ya shall eat with me today. In the morning I will let ya slide, and will tell ya all that is in your heart.
  20. As for your donkeys who were lost three days ago, don’t set your mind on them; for they are found. For whom is all that is desirable in Israel? Is it not for ya, and for all your father’s house?”
  21. Saul answered, “Am I not a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? And my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then do ya spill the tea to me like this?”
  22. Samuel took Saul and his helper, and brought them into the guest room, and made them sit in the best place among those who were invited, who were about thirty persons.
  23. Samuel said to the cook, “Bring the portion which I gave ya, of which I said to ya, ‘Set it aside.’”
  24. The cook took up the thigh, and that which was on it, and set it before Saul. Samuel said, “check this out, that which has been reserved! Set it before yourself and eat; cuz for the appointed time has it been kept for ya, for I said, ‘I have invited the people.’” So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
  25. When they had come through through down from the high place into the city, he talked with Saul on the housetop.
  26. They arose early: and it happened about the spring of the day, that Samuel called to Saul on the housetop, saying, “Get up, that I may send ya away.” Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel, abroad.
  27. As they were going down at the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul, “Tell the helper pass on before us” (and he passed on), “but stand still first, that I may cause ya to hear the word of God.”
