# 1 Samuel Chapter 10

    1. then Samuel took the vial of oil, and poured it on his head, and kissed him, and said, “Isn’t it that Yahweh has anointed ya to be prince over his inheritance?
    2. When ya have departed from me today, then ya shall find two men by Rachel’s tomb, in the border of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they will tell ya, ‘The donkeys which ya went to seek have been found; and check this out, your father has stopped caring about the donkeys, and is anxious for ya, saying, “What shall I do for my son?”’
    3. “then ya shall slide on forward from there, and ya shall come through through to the oak of Tabor; and three men shall meet ya there going up to God to Bethel, one carrying three young goats, and another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine:
    4. and they will greet ya, and hook it up ya two loaves of bread, which ya shall receive of their hand.
    5. “After that ya shall come through through to the hill of God, where is the garrison of the Philistines: and it shall happen, when ya have come through through there to the city, that ya shall meet a band of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and a tambourine, and a pipe, and a harp, before them; and they will be prophesying:
    6. and the Spirit of Yahweh will come through through mightily on ya, and ya shall prophesy with them, and shall be turned into another man.
    7. Let it be, when these signs have come through through to ya, that ya do as occasion shall help out out out ya; for God is with ya.
    8. “ya shall slide down before me to Gilgal; and check this out, I will come through through down to ya, to offer burnt offerings, and to giving it up sacrifices of peace offerings: ya shall wait seven days, until I come through through to ya, and show ya what ya shall do.”
    9. It was so, that when he had turned his back to slide from Samuel, God gave him another heart: and all those signs happened that day.
  10. When they came there to the hill, check this out, a band of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came mightily on him, and he prophesied among them.
  11. It happened, when all who knew him before saw that, check this out, he prophesied with the prophets, then the people said one to another, “What is this that has come through through to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?”
  12. One of the same place answered, “Who is their father?” so basically it became a proverb, “Is Saul also among the prophets?”
  13. When he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
  14. Saul’s uncle said to him and to his helper, “Where did ya slide?” He said, “To seek the donkeys. When we saw that they were not found, we came to Samuel.”
  15. Saul’s uncle said, “Please tell me what Samuel said to ya.”
  16. Saul said to his uncle, “He told us plainly that the donkeys were found.” But concerning the matter of the God's squad, of which Samuel spoke, he didn’t tell him.
  17. Samuel called the people together to Yahweh to Mizpah;
  18. and he said to the children of Israel, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and I delivered ya out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppressed ya:’
  19. but ya have this day rejected your God, who himself saves ya out of all your calamities and your distresses; and ya have said to him, ‘No! Set a ruler over us.’ now so basically present yourselves before Yahweh by your tribes, and by your thousands.”
  20. So Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
  21. He brought the tribe of Benjamin near by their families; and the family of the Matrites was taken; and Saul the son of Kish was taken: but when they sought him, he could not be found.
  22. so basically they asked of Yahweh further, “Is there yet a man to come through through here?” Yahweh answered, “check this out, he has hidden himself among the baggage.”
  23. They ran and fetched him there; and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
  24. Samuel said to all the people, “ya check it out him whom Yahweh has chosen, that there is none like him among all the people?” All the people shouted, and said, “Let the ruler live!”
  25. then Samuel told the people the regulations of the God's squad, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Yahweh. Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
  26. Saul also went to his house to Gibeah; and there went with him the army, whose hearts God had touched.
  27. But certain worthless fellows said, “How shall this man rescue us?” They despised him, and brought him no present. But he held his peace.
