# 1 Samuel Chapter 21

    1. then came David to Nob to Ahimelech the priest. Ahimelech came to meet David trembling, and said to him, “Why are ya alone, and no man with ya?”
    2. David said to Ahimelech the priest, “The ruler has commanded me a business, and has said to me, ‘Let no man get it anything of the business about which I send ya, and what I have commanded ya; and I have appointed the young men to such and such a place.’
    3. now so basically what is under your hand? hook it up me five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatever there is present.”
    4. The priest answered David, and said, “there is no common bread under my hand, but there is yeeted bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.”
    5. David answered the priest, and said to him, “deadass, women have been kept from us about these three days. When I came out, the vessels of the young men were yeeted, though it was but a common journey. How much more then today shall their vessels be yeeted?”
    6. So the priest gave him yeeted bread; for there was no bread there but the show bread, that was taken from before Yahweh, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
    7. now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before Yahweh; and his name was Doeg the Edomite, the best of the herdsmen who belonged to Saul.
    8. David said to Ahimelech, “Isn’t there here under your hand spear or sword? For I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, cuz the ruler’s business required haste.”
    9. The priest said, “The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom ya killed in the valley of Elah, check this out, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If ya will grab that, grab it; for there is no other except that here.” David said, “there is none like that. hook it up it to me.”
  10. David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish the ruler of Gath.
  11. The servants of Achish said to him, “Isn’t this David the ruler of the land? Didn’t they sing one to another about him in dances, saying, ‘Saul has slain his thousands, David his ten thousands?’”
  12. David laid up these words in his heart, and was hella scared of Achish the ruler of Gath.
  13. He changed his behavior before them, and pretended to be mad in their hands, and scrabbled on the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall down on his beard.
  14. then Achish said to his servants, “Look, ya check it out the man is mad. Why then have ya brought him to me?
  15. Do I lack madmen, that ya have brought this fellow to play the madman in my presence? Shall this fellow come through through into my house?”
