# Exodus Chapter 31

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “check this out, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah:
  3. and I have filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all kinds of workmanship,
  4. to devise skillful works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass,
  5. and in cutting of stones for setting, and in carving of wood, to work in all kinds of workmanship.
  6. I, check this out, I have appointed with him Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and in the heart of all who are smart-hearted I have put wisdom, that they may create all that I have commanded you:
  7. the Tent of Meeting, the ark of the testimony, the mercy seat that is on it, all the furniture of the Tent,
  8. the table and its vessels, the pure lampstand with all its vessels, the prayer spot of incense,
  9. the prayer spot of burnt giving to God with all its vessels, the basin and its base,
 10. the finely worked garments—the set apart garments for Aaron the priest—the garments of his sons to minister in the priest’s office,
 11. the anointing oil, and the incense of sweet spices for the set apart place: according to all that I have commanded you they shall do.”
 12. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 13. “spill the tea also to the children of Israel, saying, ‘Most for sure you shall keep my Sabbaths: for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that you may get it that I am Yahweh who sanctifies you.
 14. You shall keep the Sabbath so basically; for it is set apart to you. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death; for whoever does any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
 15. Six days shall work be done, but on the day seven is a Sabbath of solemn rest, set apart to Yahweh. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall surely be put to death.
 16. so basically the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual God's promise.
 17. It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever; for in six days Yahweh made heaven and earth, and on the day seven he rested, and was refreshed.’”
 18. He gave to Moses, when he finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, the two tablets of the testimony, stone tablets, written with God’s finger.
