# Exodus Chapter 33

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, “Depart, slide up from here, you and the people that you have brought up out of the land of Egypt, to the land of which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, ‘I will hook it up it to your seed.’
  2. I will send an angel before you; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
  3. to a land flowing with milk and honey: for I will not slide up in the midst of you, for you are a stiff-necked people, lest I consume you in the way.”
  4. When the people heard this evil news, they mourned: and no one put on his jewelry.
  5. Yahweh said to Moses, “Tell the children of Israel, ‘You are a stiff-necked people. If I were to slide up into your midst for one moment, I would consume you. so basically now grab off your jewelry from you, that I may get it what to do to you.’”
  6. The children of Israel stripped themselves of their jewelry from Mount Horeb onward.
  7. now Moses used to grab the tent and to pitch it outside the camp, far away from the camp, and he called it “The Tent of Meeting.” It happened that everyone who sought Yahweh went out to the Tent of Meeting, which was outside the camp.
  8. It happened that when Moses went out to the Tent, that all the people rose up, and stood, everyone at their tent door, and watched Moses, until he had gone into the Tent.
  9. It happened, when Moses entered into the Tent, that the pillar of cloud descended, stood at the door of the Tent, and spoke with Moses.
 10. All the people checked out the pillar of cloud stand at the door of the Tent, and all the people rose up and worshiped, everyone at their tent door.
 11. Yahweh spoke to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. He turned again into the camp, but his helper Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, didn’t depart out of the Tent.
 12. Moses said to Yahweh, “check this out, you tell me, ‘Bring up this people:’ and you haven’t let me get it whom you will send with me. Yet you have said, ‘I get it you by name, and you have also found favor in my sight.’
 13. now so basically, if I have found favor in your sight, please show me now your ways, that I may get it you, so that I may find favor in your sight: and consider that this nation is your people.”
 14. He said, “My presence will slide with you, and I will hook it up you rest.”
 15. He said to him, “If your presence doesn’t slide with me, don’t carry us up from here.
 16. For how would people get it that I have found favor in your sight, I and your people? Isn’t it in that you slide with us, so that we are separated, I and your people, from all the people who are on the surface of the earth?”
 17. Yahweh said to Moses, “I will do this thing also that you have spoken; for you have found favor in my sight, and I get it you by name.”
 18. He said, “Please show me your glory.”
 19. He said, “I will create all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim the name of Yahweh before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy.”
 20. He said, “You cannot check it out my face, for man may not check it out me and live.”
 21. Yahweh also said, “check this out, there is a place by me, and you shall stand on the rock.
 22. It will happen, while my glory passes by, that I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and will cover you with my hand until I have passed by;
 23. then I will grab away my hand, and you will check it out my back; but my face shall not be seen.”
