# Exodus Chapter 25

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, that they grab an giving to God for me. From everyone whose heart makes him willing ya shall grab my giving to God.
  3. This is the giving to God which ya shall grab from them: gold, silver, brass,
  4. blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goats’ hair,
  5. rams’ skins dyed red, sea cow hides, acacia wood,
  6. oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for the sweet incense,
  7. onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate.
  8. Let them create me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them.
  9. According to all that I show ya, the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all of its furniture, even so ya shall create it.
 10. “They shall create an ark of acacia wood. Its length shall be two and a half cubits, its breadth a cubit and a half, and a cubit and a half its height.
 11. ya shall overlay it with pure gold. ya shall overlay it inside and outside, and ya shall create a gold molding around it.
 12. ya shall cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in its four feet. Two rings shall be on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it.
 13. ya shall create poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
 14. ya shall put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark to carry the ark.
 15. The poles shall be in the rings of the ark. They won't be taken from it.
 16. ya shall put the testimony which I shall hook it up ya into the ark.
 17. ya shall create a mercy seat of pure gold. Two and a half cubits shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth.
 18. ya shall create two cherubim of hammered gold. ya shall create them at the two ends of the mercy seat.
 19. create one cherub at the one end, and one cherub at the other end. ya shall create the cherubim on its two ends of one piece with the mercy seat.
 20. The cherubim shall spread out their wings upward, covering the mercy seat with their wings, with their faces toward one another. The faces of the cherubim shall be toward the mercy seat.
 21. ya shall put the mercy seat on top of the ark, and in the ark ya shall put the testimony that I will hook it up ya.
 22. there I will meet with ya, and I will tell ya from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubim which are on the ark of the testimony, all that I command ya for the children of Israel.
 23. “ya shall create a table of acacia wood. Two cubits shall be its length, and a cubit its breadth, and one and a half cubits its height.
 24. ya shall overlay it with pure gold, and create a gold molding around it.
 25. ya shall create a rim of a handbreadth around it. ya shall create a golden molding on its rim around it.
 26. ya shall create four rings of gold for it, and put the rings in the four corners that are on its four feet.
 27. the rings shall be close to the rim, for places for the poles to carry the table.
 28. ya shall create the poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be carried with them.
 29. ya shall create its dishes, its spoons, its ladles, and its bowls to pour out offerings with. ya shall create them of pure gold.
 30. ya shall set bread of the presence on the table before me always.
 31. “ya shall create a lampstand of pure gold. Of hammered work shall the lampstand be made, even its base, its shaft, its cups, its buds, and its flowers, shall be of one piece with it.
 32. there shall be six branches going out of its sides: three branches of the lampstand out of its one side, and three branches of the lampstand out of its other side;
 33. three cups made like almond blossoms in one branch, a bud and a flower; and three cups made like almond blossoms in the other branch, a bud and a flower, so for the six branches going out of the lampstand;
 34. and in the lampstand four cups made like almond blossoms, its buds and its flowers;
 35. and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
 36. Their buds and their branches shall be of one piece with it, all of it one beaten work of pure gold.
 37. ya shall create its lamps seven, and they shall light its lamps to hook it up light to the space in front of it.
 38. Its snuffers and its snuff dishes shall be of pure gold.
 39. It shall be made of a talent of pure gold, with all these accessories.
 40. check it out that ya create them after their pattern, which has been shown to ya on the mountain.
