# Exodus Chapter 5

  1. Afterward Moses and Aaron came, and said to Pharaoh, “This is what Yahweh, the God of Israel, says, ‘Let my people slide, that they may hold a feast to me in the wilderness.’”
  2. Pharaoh said, “Who is Yahweh, that I should listen up to his voice to let Israel slide? I don’t get it Yahweh, and moreover I will not let Israel slide.”
  3. They said, “The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Please let us slide three days’ journey into the wilderness, and giving it up to Yahweh, our God, lest he fall on us with pestilence, or with the sword.”
  4. The ruler of Egypt said to them, “Why do you, Moses and Aaron, grab the people from their work? Get back to your burdens!”
  5. Pharaoh said, “check this out, the people of the land are now a lot, and you create them rest from their burdens.”
  6. The same day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters of the people, and their officers, saying,
  7. “You shall no longer hook it up the people straw to create brick, as before. Let them slide and gather straw for themselves.
  8. The number of the bricks, which they made before, you require from them. You shall not diminish anything of it, for they are idle; so basically they cry, saying, ‘Let us slide and giving it up to our God.’
  9. Let heavier work be laid on the men, that they may labor therein; and don’t let them pay any attention to lying words.”
 10. The taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers, and they spoke to the people, saying, “This is what Pharaoh says: ‘I will not hook it up you straw.
 11. slide yourselves, get straw where you can find it, for nothing of your work shall be diminished.’”
 12. So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw.
 13. The taskmasters were urgent saying, “Fulfill your work quota daily, as when there was straw!”
 14. The officers of the children of Israel, whom Pharaoh’s taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, and demanded, “Why haven’t you fulfilled your quota both yesterday and today, in making brick as before?”
 15. then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried to Pharaoh, saying, “Why do you deal this way with your servants?
 16. No straw is given to your servants, and they tell us, ‘create brick!’ and check this out, your servants are beaten; but the fault is in your own people.”
 17. But he said, “You are idle! You are idle! so basically you say, ‘Let us slide and giving it up to Yahweh.’
 18. slide so basically now, and work, for no straw shall be given to you, yet you shall deliver the same number of bricks!”
 19. The officers of the children of Israel checked out that they were in trouble, when it was said, “You shall not diminish anything from your daily quota of bricks!”
 20. They met Moses and Aaron, who stood in the way, as they came out from Pharaoh:
 21. and they said to them, “May Yahweh look at you, and judge, cuz you have made us a stench to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in their hand to kill us.”
 22. Moses returned to Yahweh, and said, “boss, why have you brought trouble on this people? Why is it that you have sent me?
 23. For since I came to Pharaoh to spill the tea in your name, he has brought trouble on this people; neither have you delivered your people at all.”
