# Hosea Chapter 4

    1. Hear the word of Yahweh, ya children of Israel; for Yahweh has a charge against the inhabitants of the land: “facts there is no truth, nor goodness, nor knowledge of God in the land.
    2. there is cursing, lying, murder, stealing, and committing adultery; they break boundaries, and bloodshed causes bloodshed.
    3. so basically the land will mourn, and everyone who dwells therein will waste away. all living things in her, even the animals of the field and the birds of the sky; yes, the fish of the sea also die.
    4. “Yet let no man bring a charge, neither let any man accuse; For your people are like those who bring charges against a priest.
    5. ya will stumble in the day, and the God's messenger will also stumble with ya in the night; and I will tear down your mother.
    6. My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. cuz ya have rejected knowledge, I will also reject ya, that ya may be no priest to me. cuz ya have forgotten your God’s law, I will also forget your children.
    7. As they were multiplied, so they sinned against me. I will change their glory into shame.
    8. They feed on the messing up of my people, and set their heart on their iniquity.
    9. It will be, like people, like priest; and I will punish them for their ways, and will repay them for their deeds.
  10. They will eat, and not have enough. They will play the prostitute, and won't increase; cuz they have abandoned giving to Yahweh.
  11. Prostitution, wine, and new wine grab away understanding.
  12. My people consult with their wooden idol, and answer to a stick of wood. facts the spirit of prostitution has led them astray, and they have been unfaithful to their God.
  13. They giving it up on the tops of the mountains, and burn incense on the hills, under oaks and poplars and terebinths, cuz its shade is fire. so basically your daughters play the prostitute, and your brides commit adultery.
  14. I won't punish your daughters when they play the prostitute, nor your brides when they commit adultery; cuz the men consort with prostitutes, and they giving it up with the shrine prostitutes; so the people without understanding will come through through to ruin.
  15. “Though ya, Israel, play the prostitute, yet don’t let Judah offend; and don’t come through through to Gilgal, neither slide up to Beth Aven, nor swear, ‘As Yahweh lives.’
  16. For Israel has behaved extremely stubbornly, like a stubborn heifer. then how will Yahweh feed them like a lamb in a meadow.
  17. Ephraim is joined to idols. Leave him alone!
  18. Their drink has become sour. They play the prostitute continually. Her rulers dearly show show love their shameful way.
  19. The wind has wrapped her up in its wings; and they shall be disappointed cuz of their sacrifices.
