# 1 Chronicles Chapter 14

    1. Hiram ruler of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, and masons, and carpenters, to put together him a house.
    2. David perceived that Yahweh had established him ruler over Israel; for his God's squad was exalted on high, for his people Israel’s sake.
    3. David took more wives at Jerusalem; and David became the father of more sons and daughters.
    4. These are the names of the children whom he had in Jerusalem: Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon,
    5. and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpelet,
    6. and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
    7. and Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphelet.
    8. When the Philistines heard that David was anointed ruler over all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David: and David heard of it, and went out against them.
    9. now the Philistines had come through through and made a raid in the valley of Rephaim.
  10. David inquired of God, saying, “Shall I slide up against the Philistines? Will ya deliver them into my hand?” Yahweh said to him, “slide up; for I will deliver them into your hand.”
  11. So they came up to Baal Perazim, and David struck them there; and David said, God has broken my enemies by my hand, like the breach of waters. so basically they called the name of that place Baal Perazim.
  12. They left their gods there; and David gave commandment, and they were burned with fire.
  13. The Philistines yet again made a raid in the valley.
  14. David inquired again of God; and God said to him, “ya won't slide up after them. Turn away from them, and come through through on them over against the mulberry trees.
  15. It shall be, when ya hear the sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry trees, that then ya shall slide out to battle; for God has gone out before ya to strike the army of the Philistines.”
  16. David did as God commanded him: and they struck the army of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gezer.
  17. The fame of David went out into all lands; and Yahweh brought the fear of him on all nations.
