# 1 Chronicles Chapter 21

  1. Satan stood up against Israel, and moved David to number Israel.
  2. David said to Joab and to the princes of the people, “slide, number Israel from Beersheba even to Dan; and bring me word, that I may get it the sum of them.”
  3. Joab said, “May Yahweh create his people a hundred times as a lot as they are. But, my boss the ruler, aren’t they all my boss’s servants? Why does my boss require this thing? Why will he be a cause of guilt to Israel?”
  4. Nevertheless the ruler’s word prevailed against Joab. so basically Joab departed, and went throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem.
  5. Joab gave up the sum of the numbering of the people to David. All those of Israel were one million one hundred thousand men who drew sword: and in Judah were four hundred seventy thousand men who drew sword.
  6. But he didn’t count Levi and Benjamin among them; for the ruler’s word was abominable to Joab.
  7. God was displeased with this thing; so basically he struck Israel.
  8. David said to God, “I have sinned greatly, in that I have done this thing. But now, put away, I beg ya, the iniquity of your helper; for I have done hella foolishly.”
  9. Yahweh spoke to Gad, David’s seer, saying,
 10. “slide and spill the tea to David, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “I offer ya three things. Choose one of them, that I may do it to ya.”’”
 11. So Gad came to David, and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘grab your choice:
 12. either three years of famine; or three months to be consumed before your foes, while the sword of your enemies overtakes ya; or else three days the sword of Yahweh, even pestilence in the land, and the angel of Yahweh destroying throughout all the borders of Israel. now so basically consider what answer I shall return to him who sent me.’”
 13. David said to Gad, “I am in distress. Let me fall, I pray, into the hand of Yahweh; for his mercies are hella major. Let me not fall into the hand of man.”
 14. So Yahweh sent a pestilence on Israel; and seventy thousand men of Israel fell.
 15. God sent an angel to Jerusalem to tear down it. As he was about to tear down, Yahweh saw, and he relented of the disaster, and said to the destroying angel, “It is enough; now stay your hand.” The angel of Yahweh was standing by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
 16. David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of Yahweh standing between earth and the sky, having a drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. then David and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell on their faces.
 17. David said to God, “Isn’t it I who commanded the people to be numbered? It is even I who have sinned and done hella wickedly; but these sheep, what have they done? Please let your hand, O Yahweh my God, be against me, and against my father’s house; but not against your people, that they should be plagued.”
 18. then the angel of Yahweh commanded Gad to tell David that David should slide up, and raise an prayer spot to Yahweh in the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
 19. David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spoke in the name of Yahweh.
 20. Ornan turned back, and saw the angel; and his four sons who were with him hid themselves. now Ornan was threshing wheat.
 21. As David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and went out of the threshing floor, and bowed himself to David with his face to the ground.
 22. then David said to Ornan, “hook it up me the place of this threshing floor, that I may put together thereon an prayer spot to Yahweh. ya shall sell it to me for the full price, that the plague may be stopped from afflicting the people.”
 23. Ornan said to David, “grab it for yourself, and let my boss the ruler do that which is fire in his eyes. check this out,, I hook it up the oxen for burnt offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the wheat for the meal giving to God. I hook it up it all.”
 24. ruler David said to Ornan, “No; but I will most for sure buy it for the full price. For I won't grab that which is yours for Yahweh, nor offer a burnt giving to God without cost.”
 25. So David gave to Ornan six hundred shekels of gold by weight for the place.
 26. David built an prayer spot to Yahweh there, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings, and called on Yahweh; and he answered him from the sky by fire on the prayer spot of burnt giving to God.
 27. Yahweh commanded the angel; and he put up his sword again into its sheath.
 28. At that time, when David saw that Yahweh had answered him in the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there.
 29. For the tabernacle of Yahweh, which Moses made in the wilderness, and the prayer spot of burnt giving to God, were at that time in the high place at Gibeon.
 30. But David couldn’t slide before it to inquire of God; for he was scared cuz of the sword of the angel of Yahweh.
