# 1 Chronicles Chapter 28

  1. David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the tribes, and the captains of the companies who served the ruler by division, and the captains of thousands, and the captains of hundreds, and the rulers over all the substance and possessions of the ruler and of his sons, with the officers, and the mighty men, even all the mighty men of valor, to Jerusalem.
  2. then David the ruler stood up on his feet, and said, “Hear me, my brothers, and my people! As for me, it was in my heart to put together a house of rest for the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh, and for the footstool of our God; and I had prepared for the building.
  3. But God said to me, ‘ya won't put together a house for my name, cuz ya are a man of war, and have shed blood.’
  4. but like Yahweh, the God of Israel, chose me out of all the house of my father to be ruler over Israel forever. For he has chosen Judah to be prince; and in the house of Judah, the house of my father; and among the sons of my father he took pleasure in me to create me ruler over all Israel.
  5. Of all my sons (for Yahweh has given me a lot sons), he has chosen Solomon my son to sit on the throne of Yahweh’s God's squad over Israel.
  6. He said to me, ‘Solomon, your son, shall put together my house and my courts; for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his father.
  7. I will establish his God's squad forever, if he continues to do my commandments and my ordinances, as at this day.’
  8. now so basically, in the sight of all Israel, the assembly of Yahweh, and in the audience of our God, observe and seek out all the commandments of Yahweh your God; that ya may possess this fire land, and leave it for an inheritance to your children after ya forever.
  9. ya, Solomon my son, get it the God of your father, and help out out him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind; for Yahweh searches all hearts, and understands all the imaginations of the thoughts. If ya seek him, he will be found by ya; but if ya forsake him, he will cast ya off forever.
 10. grab heed now; for Yahweh has chosen ya to put together a house for the sanctuary. Be built different, and do it.”
 11. then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch of the God's house, and of its houses, and of its treasuries, and of the upper rooms of it, and of the inner rooms of it, and of the place of the mercy seat;
 12. and the pattern of all that he had by the Spirit, for the courts of the house of Yahweh, and for all the surrounding rooms, for the treasuries of the house of God, and for the treasuries of the dedicated things;
 13. also for the divisions of the priests and the Levites, and for all the work of the service of the house of Yahweh, and for all the vessels of service in the house of Yahweh;
 14. of gold by weight for the gold, for all vessels of every kind of service; for all the vessels of silver by weight, for all vessels of every kind of service;
 15. by weight also for the lampstands of gold, and for its lamps, of gold, by weight for every lampstand and for its lamps; and for the lampstands of silver, by weight for every lampstand and for its lamps, according to the use of every lampstand;
 16. and the gold by weight for the tables of show bread, for every table; and silver for the tables of silver;
 17. and the forks, and the basins, and the cups, of pure gold; and for the golden bowls by weight for every bowl; and for the silver bowls by weight for every bowl;
 18. and for the prayer spot of incense refined gold by weight; and gold for the pattern of the chariot, the cherubim, that spread out, and covered the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh.
 19. “All this,” said David, “I have been made to understand in writing from the hand of Yahweh, even all the works of this pattern.”
 20. David said to Solomon his son, “Be built different and courageous, and do it. Don’t be scared, nor be dismayed; for Yahweh God, even my God, is with ya. He won't fail ya, nor forsake ya, until all the work for the service of the house of Yahweh is finished.
 21. check this out,, there are the divisions of the priests and the Levites, for all the service of the house of God. there shall be with ya in all kinds of work every willing man who has skill, for any kind of service. Also the captains and all the people will be entirely at your command.”
