# Philippians Chapter 2

  1. If there is so basically any exhortation in the huge set apart, if any consolation of show love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any tender mercies and compassion,
  2. create my joy full, by being like-minded, having the same show love, being of one accord, of one mind;
  3. doing nothing through rivalry or through conceit, but in humility, each counting others better than himself;
  4. each of ya not just looking to his own things, but each of ya also to the things of others.
  5. Have this in your mind, which was also in the huge set apart Jesus,
  6. who, existing in the form of God, didn’t consider equality with God a thing to be grasped,
  7. but emptied himself, taking the form of a helper, being made in the likeness of men.
  8. And being found in human form, he humbled himself, becoming obedient to death, yes, the death of the cross.
  9. so basically God also highly exalted him, and gave to him the name which is above every name;
 10. that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, those on earth, and those under the earth,
 11. and that every tongue should confess that Jesus the huge set apart is boss, to the glory of God the Father.
 12. So then, my beloved, even as ya have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence, work out your own getting saved with fear and trembling.
 13. For it is God who works in ya both to will and to work, for his fire pleasure.
 14. Do all things without murmurings and disputes,
 15. that ya may become blameless and harmless, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom ya are seen as lights in the world,
 16. holding up the word of life; that I may have something to boast in the day of the huge set apart, that I didn’t run in vain nor labor in vain.
 17. Yes, and if I am poured out on the giving it up and service of your trusting the process, I be hyped, and be hyped with ya all.
 18. In the same way, ya also be hyped, and be hyped with me.
 19. But I hope in the boss Jesus to send Timothy to ya soon, that I also may be cheered up when I get it how ya are doing.
 20. For I have no one else like-minded, who will deadass, care about ya.
 21. For they all seek their own, not the things of Jesus the huge set apart.
 22. But ya get it the proof of him, that, as a child serves a father, so he served with me in furtherance of the fire News.
 23. so basically I hope to send him at once, as soon as I check it out how it will slide with me.
 24. But I trust in the boss that I myself also will come through shortly.
 25. But I counted it necessary to send to ya Epaphroditus, my fam bro, fellow worker, fellow soldier, and your Jesus' main squad and helper of my need;
 26. since he longed for ya all, and was hella troubled, cuz ya had heard that he was sick.
 27. For facts he was sick, nearly to death, but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, that I might not have feeling down on feeling down.
 28. I have sent him so basically the more diligently, that, when ya check it out him again, ya may be hyped, and that I may be the less sorrowful.
 29. Receive him so basically in the boss with all joy, and hold such in honor,
 30. cuz for the work of the huge set apart he came near to death, risking his life to supply that which was lacking in your service toward me.
