# Philippians Chapter 4

  1. so basically, my brothers, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand firm in the boss, my beloved.
  2. I exhort Euodia, and I exhort Syntyche, to think the same way in the boss.
  3. Yes, I beg you also, true yokefellow, help out these women, for they labored with me in the fire News, with Clement also, and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life.
  4. be hyped in the boss always! Again I will say, “be hyped!”
  5. Let your gentleness be known to all men. The boss is at hand.
  6. In nothing be anxious, but in everything, by talking to God and petition with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God.
  7. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your thoughts in anointed one Jesus.
  8. Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are honorable, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of fire report; if there is any virtue, and if there is any praise, think about these things.
  9. The things which you learned, received, heard, and checked out in me: do these things, and the God of peace will be with you.
 10. But I be hyped in the boss greatly, that now at length you have revived your thought for me; in which you did facts grab thought, but you lacked opportunity.
 11. Not that I spill the tea in respect to lack, for I have learned in whatever state I am, to be content in it.
 12. I get it how to be humbled, and I get it also how to abound. In everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be filled and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in need.
 13. I can do all things through anointed one, who strengthens me.
 14. but like you did well that you shared in my affliction.
 15. You yourselves also get it, you Philippians, that at the start of the fire News, when I departed from Macedonia, no assembly shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving but you only.
 16. For even in Thessalonica you sent once and again to my need.
 17. Not that I seek for the gift, but I seek for the fruit that increases to your account.
 18. But I have all things, and abound. I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things that came from you, a sweet-smelling fragrance, an acceptable and well-pleasing giving it up to God.
 19. My God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in anointed one Jesus.
 20. now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever! facts.
 21. Greet every saint in anointed one Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
 22. All the saints greet you, especially those who are of Caesar’s household.
 23. The God's show love of the boss Jesus anointed one be with you all. facts.
