# 1 Peter Chapter 3

    1. In the same way, wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; so that, even if any don’t obey the Word, they may be won by the behavior of their wives without a word;
    2. seeing your pure behavior in fear.
    3. Let your beauty be not just the outward adorning of braiding the hair, and of wearing jewels of gold, or of putting on fine clothing;
    4. but in the hidden person of the heart, in the incorruptible adornment of a nice-nice and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God hella precious.
    5. For this is how the yeeted women before, who hoped in God also adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands:
    6. as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him boss, whose children ya now are, if ya do well, and aren't put in fear by any terror.
    7. ya husbands, in the same way, live with your wives according to knowledge, giving honor to the woman, as to the weaker vessel, as being also joint heirs of the God's show show love of life; that your prayers may not be hindered.
    8. Finally, be all like-minded, compassionate, loving as brothers, tenderhearted, courteous,
    9. not rendering evil for evil, or insult for insult; but instead blessing; knowing that to this were ya called, that ya may inherit a blessing.
  10. For, “He who would show show love life, and check it out fire days, let him keep his tongue from evil, and his lips from speaking deceit.
  11. Let him turn away from evil, and do fire. Let him seek peace, and pursue it.
  12. For the eyes of Boss are on the doing what's right, and his ears open to their talking to God; but the face of Boss is against those who do evil.”
  13. now who is he who will harm ya, if ya become imitators of that which is fire?
  14. But even if ya should suffer for righteousness’ sake, ya are blessed up up. “Don’t fear what they fear, neither be troubled.”
  15. But sanctify Boss God in your hearts; and always be ready to hook it up an answer to everyone who asks ya a reason concerning the hope that is in ya, with humility and fear:
  16. having a fire conscience; that, while ya are spoken against as evildoers, they may be disappointed who curse your fire way of life in the huge yeeted.
  17. For it is better, if it is God’s will, that ya suffer for doing well than for doing evil.
  18. cuz the huge yeeted also suffered for sins once, the doing what's right for the unrighteous, that he might bring ya to God; being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit;
  19. in which he also went and preached to the spirits in prison,
  20. who before were disobedient, when God waited patiently in the days of Noah, while the ship was being built. In it, not much, that is, eight souls, were saved through water.
  21. This is a symbol of baptism, which now saves ya—not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a fire conscience toward God, through the resurrection of Jesus the huge yeeted,
  22. who is at the right hand of God, having gone into heaven, angels and authorities and powers being made subject to him.
