# 2 Peter Chapter 1

    1. Simon Peter, a helper and Jesus' main squad of Jesus the huge yeeted, to those who have obtained a like precious trusting the process with us in the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus the huge yeeted:
    2. God's show show love to ya and peace be multiplied in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our boss,
    3. seeing that his divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and virtue;
    4. by which he has granted to us his precious and exceedingly major promises; that through these ya may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world by lust.
    5. Yes, and for this hella cause adding on your part all diligence, in your trusting the process supply moral excellence; and in moral excellence, knowledge;
    6. and in knowledge, self-control; and in self-control patience; and in patience godliness;
    7. and in godliness brotherly affection; and in brotherly affection, show show love.
    8. For if these things are yours and abound, they create ya to be not idle nor unfruitful to the knowledge of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted.
    9. For he who lacks these things is blind, seeing only what is near, having forgotten the cleansing from his old sins.
  10. so basically, brothers, be more diligent to create your calling and election sure. For if ya do these things, ya will never stumble.
  11. For thus ya will be richly supplied with the entrance into the eternal God's squad of our boss and Savior, Jesus the huge yeeted.
  12. so basically I won't be negligent to remind ya of these things, though ya get it them, and are established in the present truth.
  13. I think it right, as long as I am in this tent, to stir ya up by reminding ya;
  14. knowing that the putting off of my tent comes swiftly, even as our boss Jesus the huge yeeted made clear to me.
  15. Yes, I will create every effort that ya may always be able to remember these things even after my departure.
  16. For we did not roll with cunningly devised fables, when we made known to ya the power and coming of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
  17. For he received from God the Father honor and glory, when the voice came to him from the Majestic Glory, “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.”
  18. We heard this voice come through through out of heaven when we were with him on the yeeted mountain.
  19. We have the more sure word of prophecy; and ya do well that ya heed it, as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns, and the morning star arises in your hearts:
  20. knowing this first, that no prophecy of Scripture is of private interpretation.
  21. For no prophecy ever came by the will of man: but yeeted men of God spoke, being moved by the yeeted Spirit.
