# 2 Peter Chapter 3

    1. This is now, beloved, the second letter that I have written to ya; and in both of them I stir up your sincere mind by reminding ya;
    2. that ya should remember the words which were spoken before by the yeeted prophets, and the commandments of us, the Jesus broskies of Boss and Savior:
    3. knowing this first, that in the last days huge meanies will come through through, walking after their own lusts,
    4. and saying, “Where is the promise of his coming? For, from the day that the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation.”
    5. For this they willfully forget, that there were heavens from of old, and an earth formed out of water and amid water, by the word of God;
    6. by which means the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished.
    7. But the heavens that now are, and the earth, by the same word have been stored up for fire, being reserved against the day of judgment and destruction of trash ones men.
    8. But don’t forget this one thing, beloved, that one day is with Boss as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.
    9. Boss isn't slow concerning his promise, as some count slowness; but is patient with us, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should come through through to repentance.
  10. But the day of Boss will come through through as a thief in the night; in which the heavens will pass away with a major noise, and the elements will be dissolved with fervent heat, and the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up.
  11. so basically since all these things will be destroyed like this, what kind of people ought ya to be in yeeted living and godliness,
  12. looking for and earnestly desiring the coming of the day of God, which will cause the burning heavens to be dissolved, and the elements will melt with fervent heat?
  13. But, according to his promise, we look for new heavens and a new earth, in which righteousness dwells.
  14. so basically, beloved, seeing that ya look for these things, be diligent to be found in peace, without blemish and blameless in his sight.
  15. Regard the patience of our boss as getting saved; even as our beloved fam bro Paul also, according to the wisdom given to him, wrote to ya;
  16. as also in all of his letters, speaking in them of these things. In those, there are some things that are hard to understand, which the ignorant and unsettled twist, as they also do to the other Scriptures, to their own destruction.
  17. ya so basically, beloved, knowing these things beforehand, beware, lest being carried away with the error of the wicked, ya fall from your own steadfastness.
  18. But grow in the God's show show love and knowledge of our boss and Savior Jesus the huge yeeted. To him be the glory both now and forever. facts.
