# 2 Peter Chapter 2

    1. But false prophets also arose among the people, as false teachers will also be among ya, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, denying even Boss who bought them, bringing on themselves swift destruction.
    2. a lot will roll with their immoral ways, and as a result, the way of the truth will be maligned.
    3. In covetousness they will exploit ya with deceptive words: whose sentence now from of old doesn’t linger, and their destruction won't slumber.
    4. For if God didn’t spare angels when they sinned, but cast them down to Tartarus, and committed them to pits of darkness, to be reserved for judgment;
    5. and didn’t spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah with seven others, a preacher of righteousness, when he brought a flood on the world of the trash ones;
    6. and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them to destruction, having made them an example to those who would live trash ones;
    7. and delivered doing what's right Lot, who was hella distressed by the lustful life of the wicked
    8. (for that doing what's right man dwelling among them, was tormented in his doing what's right soul from day to day with seeing and hearing lawless deeds):
    9. Boss knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to keep the unrighteous under punishment for the day of judgment;
  10. but chiefly those who walk after the flesh in the lust of defilement, and despise authority. Daring, self-willed, they aren't scared to spill the tea evil of dignitaries;
  11. whereas angels, though greater in might and power, don’t bring a railing judgment against them before Boss.
  12. But these, as unreasoning creatures, born natural animals to be taken and destroyed, speaking evil in matters about which they are ignorant, will in their destroying surely be destroyed,
  13. receiving the wages of unrighteousness; people who count it pleasure to revel in the daytime, spots and blemishes, reveling in their deceit while they feast with ya;
  14. having eyes full of adultery, and who can’t cease from messing up; enticing unsettled souls; having a heart trained in greed; children of cursing;
  15. forsaking the right way, they went astray, having followed the way of Balaam the son of Beor, who loved the wages of wrongdoing;
  16. but he was rebuked for his own disobedience. A mute donkey spoke with a man’s voice and stopped the madness of the God's messenger.
  17. These are wells without water, clouds driven by a storm; for whom the blackness of darkness has been reserved forever.
  18. For, uttering major swelling words of emptiness, they entice in the lusts of the flesh, by licentiousness, those who are facts escaping from those who live in error;
  19. promising them liberty, while they themselves are bondservants of corruption; for a man is brought into bondage by whoever overcomes him.
  20. For if, after they have escaped the defilement of the world through the knowledge of Boss and Savior Jesus the huge yeeted, they are again entangled in it and overcome, the last state has become worse for them than the first.
  21. For it would be better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than, after knowing it, to turn back from the yeeted commandment delivered to them.
  22. But it has happened to them according to the true proverb, “The dog turns to his own vomit again,” and “the sow that has washed to wallowing in the mire.”
