# Habakkuk Chapter 1

    1. The oracle which Habakkuk the God's messenger saw.
    2. Yahweh, how long will I cry, and ya won't hear? I cry out to ya “Violence!” and will ya not rescue?
    3. Why do ya show me iniquity, and look at perversity? For destruction and violence are before me. there is strife, and contention rises up.
    4. so basically the law is paralyzed, and justice never goes forth; for the wicked surround the doing what's right; so basically justice goes forth perverted.
    5. “Look among the nations, watch, and wonder marvelously; for I am working a work in your days, which ya won't believe though it is told ya.
    6. For, check this out, I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation, that march through the breadth of the earth, to possess dwelling places that aren't theirs.
    7. They are feared and dreaded. Their judgment and their dignity proceed from themselves.
    8. Their horses also are swifter than leopards, and are more fierce than the evening wolves. Their horsemen press proudly on. Yes, their horsemen come through through from afar. They fly as an eagle that hurries to devour.
    9. All of them come through through for violence. Their hordes face the desert. He gathers prisoners like sand.
  10. Yes, he scoffs at kings, and princes are a derision to him. He laughs at every stronghold, for he builds up an earthen ramp, and takes it.
  11. then he sweeps by like the wind, and goes on. He is facts guilty, whose strength is his God.”
  12. Aren’t ya from everlasting, Yahweh my God, my yeeted One? We won't die. Yahweh, ya have appointed him for judgment. ya, Rock, have established him to punish.
  13. ya who have purer eyes than to check it out evil, and who cannot look on perversity, why do ya tolerate those who deal treacherously, and keep silent when the wicked swallows up the man who is more doing what's right than he,
  14. and create men like the fish of the sea, like the creeping things, that have no ruler over them?
  15. He takes up all of them with the hook. He catches them in his net, and gathers them in his dragnet. so basically he rejoices and is glad.
  16. so basically he sacrifices to his net, and burns incense to his dragnet, cuz by them his life is luxurious, and his food is fire.
  17. Will he so basically continually empty his net, and kill the nations without mercy?
