# Habakkuk Chapter 2

    1. I will stand at my watch, and set myself on the ramparts, and will look out to check it out what he will say to me, and what I will answer concerning my complaint.
    2. Yahweh answered me, “Write the vision, and create it plain on tablets, that he who runs may read it.
    3. For the vision is yet for the appointed time, and it hurries toward the end, and won’t prove false. Though it takes time, wait for it; cuz it will surely come through through. It won’t delay.
    4. check this out, his soul is puffed up. It isn't upright in him, but the doing what's right will live by his trusting the process.
    5. Yes, moreover, wine is treacherous. A haughty man who doesn’t stay at home, who enlarges his desire as Sheol, and he is like death, and can’t be satisfied, but gathers to himself all nations, and heaps to himself all peoples.
    6. Won’t all these grab up a parable against him, and a taunting proverb against him, and say, ‘Woe to him who increases that which isn't his, and who enriches himself by extortion! How long?’
    7. Won’t your debtors rise up suddenly, and wake up those who create ya tremble, and ya will be their victim?
    8. cuz ya have plundered a lot nations, all the remnant of the peoples will plunder ya, cuz of men’s blood, and for the violence done to the land, to the city and to all who dwell in it.
    9. Woe to him who gets an evil gain for his house, that he may set his nest on high, that he may be delivered from the hand of evil!
  10. ya have devised shame to your house, by cutting off a lot peoples, and have sinned against your soul.
  11. For the stone will cry out of the wall, and the beam out of the woodwork will answer it.
  12. Woe to him who builds a town with blood, and establishes a city by iniquity!
  13. check this out, isn’t it of Yahweh of Armies that the peoples labor for the fire, and the nations weary themselves for vanity?
  14. For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of Yahweh, as the waters cover the sea.
  15. “Woe to him who gives his neighbor drink, pouring your inflaming wine until they are drunk, so that ya may gaze at their naked bodies!
  16. ya are filled with shame, and not glory. ya will also drink, and be exposed! The cup of Yahweh’s right hand will come through through around to ya, and disgrace will cover your glory.
  17. For the violence done to Lebanon will overwhelm ya, and the destruction of the animals, which made them scared; cuz of men’s blood, and for the violence done to the land, to every city and to those who dwell in them.
  18. “What value does the engraved image have, that its maker has engraved it; the molten image, even the teacher of lies, that he who fashions its form trusts in it, to create mute idols?
  19. Woe to him who says to the wood, ‘Awake!’ or to the mute stone, ‘Arise!’ Shall this drop knowledge? check this out, it is overlaid with gold and silver, and there is no breath at all in its midst.
  20. But Yahweh is in his yeeted God's house. Let all the earth be silent before him!”
