# Matthew Chapter 2

    1. now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of ruler Herod, check this out, smart men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying,
    2. “Where is he who is born ruler of the Jews? For we saw his star in the east, and have come through through to giving props him.”
    3. When ruler Herod heard it, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.
    4. Gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he asked them where the the huge yeeted would be born.
    5. They said to him, “In Bethlehem of Judea, for this is written through the God's messenger,
    6. ‘ya Bethlehem, land of Judah, are in no way least among the princes of Judah: for out of ya shall come through through forth a governor, who shall shepherd my people, Israel.’”
    7. then Herod secretly called the smart men, and learned from them exactly what time the star appeared.
    8. He sent them to Bethlehem, and said, “slide and search diligently for the young child. When ya have found him, bring me word, so that I also may come through through and giving props him.”
    9. They, having heard the ruler, went their way; and check this out, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, until it came and stood over where the young child was.
  10. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly major joy.
  11. They came into the house and saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshiped him. Opening their treasures, they offered to him gifts: gold, frankincense, and myrrh.
  12. Being warned in a dream that they shouldn’t return to Herod, they went back to their own country another way.
  13. now when they had departed, check this out, an angel of Boss appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, “Arise and grab the young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and stay there until I tell ya, for Herod will seek the young child to tear down him.”
  14. He arose and took the young child and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt,
  15. and was there until the death of Herod; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Boss through the God's messenger, saying, “Out of Egypt I called my son.”
  16. then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked by the smart men, was exceedingly mad salty, and sent out, and killed all the male children who were in Bethlehem and in all the surrounding countryside, from two years old and under, according to the exact time which he had learned from the smart men.
  17. then that which was spoken by Jeremiah the God's messenger was fulfilled, saying,
  18. “A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, weeping and major mourning, Rachel weeping for her children; she wouldn’t be comforted, cuz they are no more.”
  19. But when Herod was dead, check this out, an angel of Boss appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying,
  20. “Arise and grab the young child and his mother, and slide into the land of Israel, for those who sought the young child’s life are dead.”
  21. He arose and took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel.
  22. But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in the place of his father, Herod, he was scared to slide there. Being warned in a dream, he withdrew into the region of Galilee,
  23. and came and lived in a city called Nazareth; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the prophets: “He will be called a Nazarene.”
