# Matthew Chapter 3

  1. In those days, John the Baptizer came, preaching in the wilderness of Judea, saying,
  2. “turn it around, for the God's squad of Heaven is at hand!”
  3. For this is he who was spoken of by Isaiah the God's messenger, saying, “The voice of one crying in the wilderness, create ready the way of the boss. create his paths straight.”
  4. now John himself wore clothing made of camel’s hair, with a leather belt around his waist. His food was locusts and wild honey.
  5. then people from Jerusalem, all of Judea, and all the region around the Jordan went out to him.
  6. They were baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins.
  7. But when he saw a lot of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for his baptism, he said to them, “ya offspring of vipers, who warned ya to flee from the wrath to come through?
  8. so basically bring forth fruit worthy of repentance!
  9. Don’t think to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham for our father,’ for I tell ya that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones.
 10. “Even now the axe lies at the root of the trees. so basically, every tree that doesn’t bring forth fire fruit is cut down, and cast into the fire.
 11. I facts baptize ya in water for repentance, but he who comes after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize ya in the set apart Spirit.
 12. His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor. He will gather his wheat into the barn, but the chaff he will burn up with unquenchable fire.”
 13. then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him.
 14. But John would have hindered him, saying, “I need to be baptized by ya, and ya come through to me?”
 15. But Jesus, answering, said to him, “Allow it now, for this is the fitting way for us to fulfill all righteousness.” then he allowed him.
 16. Jesus, when he was baptized, went up directly from the water: and check this out,, the heavens were opened to him. He saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove, and coming on him.
 17. check this out,, a voice out of the heavens said, “This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.”
