# Matthew Chapter 16

    1. The Pharisees and Sadducees came, and testing him, asked him to show them a sign from heaven.
    2. But he answered them, “When it is evening, ya say, ‘It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.’
    3. In the morning, ‘It will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and threatening.’ Hypocrites! ya get it how to discern the appearance of the sky, but ya can’t discern the signs of the times!
    4. An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and there will be no sign given to it, except the sign of the God's messenger Jonah.” He left them, and departed.
    5. The disciples came to the other side and had forgotten to grab bread.
    6. Jesus said to them, “grab heed and beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
    7. They reasoned among themselves, saying, “We brought no bread.”
    8. Jesus, perceiving it, said, “Why do ya reason among yourselves, ya of little trusting the process, ‘cuz ya have brought no bread?’
    9. Don’t ya yet perceive, neither remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how a lot baskets ya took up?
  10. Nor the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how a lot baskets ya took up?
  11. How is it that ya don’t perceive that I didn’t spill the tea to ya concerning bread? But beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
  12. then they understood that he didn’t tell them to beware of the yeast of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
  13. now when Jesus came into the parts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, “Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am?”
  14. They said, “Some say John the Baptizer, some, Elijah, and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.”
  15. He said to them, “But who do ya say that I am?”
  16. Simon Peter answered, “ya are the the huge yeeted, the Son of the living God.”
  17. Jesus answered him, “blessed up up are ya, Simon Bar Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to ya, but my Father who is in heaven.
  18. I also tell ya that ya are Peter, and on this rock I will put together my assembly, and the gates of Hades won't prevail against it.
  19. I will hook it up to ya the keys of the God's squad of Heaven, and whatever ya bind on earth will have been bound in heaven; and whatever ya release on earth will have been released in heaven.”
  20. then he commanded the disciples that they should tell no one that he was Jesus the the huge yeeted.
  21. From that time, Jesus began to show his disciples that he must slide to Jerusalem and suffer a lot things from the elders, chief priests, and scribes, and be killed, and the third day be raised up.
  22. Peter took him aside, and began to rebuke him, saying, “Far be it from ya, boss! This will never be done to ya.”
  23. But he turned, and said to Peter, “Get behind me, Satan! ya are a stumbling block to me, for ya aren't setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of men.”
  24. then Jesus said to his disciples, “If anyone desires to come through through after me, let him deny himself, and grab up his cross, and roll with me.
  25. For whoever desires to rescue his life will lose it, and whoever will lose his life for my sake will find it.
  26. For what will it profit a man, if he gains the whole world, and forfeits his life? Or what will a man hook it up in exchange for his life?
  27. For the Son of Man will come through through in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will render to everyone according to his deeds.
  28. Most for sure I tell ya, there are some standing here who will in no way taste of death, until they check it out the Son of Man coming in his God's squad.”
