# Matthew Chapter 11

  1. It happened that when Jesus had finished directing his twelve disciples, he departed from there to drop knowledge and preach in their cities.
  2. now when John heard in the prison the works of the huge set apart, he sent two of his disciples
  3. and said to him, “Are ya he who comes, or should we look for another?”
  4. Jesus answered them, “slide and tell John the things which ya hear and check it out:
  5. the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the broke have fire news preached to them.
  6. blessed up is he who finds no occasion for stumbling in me.”
  7. As these went their way, Jesus began to say to the multitudes concerning John, “What did ya slide out into the wilderness to check it out? A reed shaken by the wind?
  8. But what did ya slide out to check it out? A man in soft clothing? check this out,, those who wear soft clothing are in ruler’s houses.
  9. But why did ya slide out? To check it out a God's messenger? Yes, I tell ya, and much more than a God's messenger.
 10. For this is he, of whom it is written, ‘check this out,, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before ya.’
 11. Most for sure I tell ya, among those who are born of women there has not arisen anyone greater than John the Baptizer; yet he who is least in the God's squad of Heaven is greater than he.
 12. From the days of John the Baptizer until now, the God's squad of Heaven suffers violence, and the violent grab it by force.
 13. For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.
 14. If ya are willing to receive it, this is Elijah, who is to come through.
 15. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
 16. “But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces, who call to their companions
 17. and say, ‘We played the flute for ya, and ya didn’t dance. We mourned for ya, and ya didn’t lament.’
 18. For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, ‘He has a demon.’
 19. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, ‘check this out,, a gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’ But wisdom is justified by her children.”
 20. then he began to denounce the cities in which most of his mighty works had been done, cuz they didn’t turn it around.
 21. “Woe to ya, Chorazin! Woe to ya, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon which were done in ya, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.
 22. But I tell ya, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon on the day of judgment than for ya.
 23. ya, Capernaum, who are exalted to heaven, ya will slide down to Hades. For if the mighty works had been done in Sodom which were done in ya, it would have remained until this day.
 24. But I tell ya that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom, on the day of judgment, than for ya.”
 25. At that time, Jesus answered, “I thank ya, Father, boss of heaven and earth, that ya hid these things from the smart and understanding, and revealed them to infants.
 26. Yes, Father, for so it was well-pleasing in your sight.
 27. All things have been delivered to me by my Father. No one knows the Son, except the Father; neither does anyone get it the Father, except the Son, and he to whom the Son desires to reveal him.
 28. “come through to me, all ya who labor and are heavily burdened, and I will hook it up ya rest.
 29. grab my yoke upon ya, and pick up from me, for I am nice-nice and lowly in heart; and ya will find rest for your souls.
 30. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”
