# Matthew Chapter 21

    1. When they drew near to Jerusalem, and came to Bethsphage, to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples,
    2. saying to them, “slide into the village that is opposite ya, and immediately ya will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie them, and bring them to me.
    3. If anyone says anything to ya, ya shall say, ‘Boss needs them,’ and immediately he will send them.”
    4. All this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the God's messenger, saying,
    5. “Tell the daughter of Zion, check this out, your ruler comes to ya, humble, and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.”
    6. The disciples went, and did just as Jesus commanded them,
    7. and brought the donkey and the colt, and laid their clothes on them; and he sat on them.
    8. A hella major multitude spread their clothes on the road. Others cut branches from the trees, and spread them on the road.
    9. The multitudes who went before him, and who followed kept shouting, “rescue us to the son of David! blessed up up is he who comes in the name of Boss! rescue us in the highest!”
  10. When he had come through through into Jerusalem, all the city was stirred up, saying, “Who is this?”
  11. The multitudes said, “This is the God's messenger, Jesus, from Nazareth of Galilee.”
  12. Jesus entered into the God's house of God, and drove out all of those who sold and bought in the God's house, and overthrew the money changers’ tables and the seats of those who sold the doves.
  13. He said to them, “It is written, ‘My house shall be called a house of talking to God,’ but ya have made it a den of robbers!”
  14. The blind and the lame came to him in the God's house, and he healed them.
  15. But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children who were crying in the God's house and saying, “rescue us to the son of David!” they were indignant,
  16. and said to him, “Do ya hear what these are saying?” Jesus said to them, “Yes. Did ya never read, ‘Out of the mouth of babes and nursing babies ya have perfected praise?’”
  17. He left them, and went out of the city to Bethany, and lodged there.
  18. now in the morning, as he returned to the city, he was hungry.
  19. Seeing a fig tree by the road, he came to it, and found nothing on it but leaves. He said to it, “Let there be no fruit from ya forever!” Immediately the fig tree withered away.
  20. When the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, “How did the fig tree immediately wither away?”
  21. Jesus answered them, “Most for sure I tell ya, if ya have trusting the process, and don’t doubt, ya won't only do what was done to the fig tree, but even if ya told this mountain, ‘Be taken up and cast into the sea,’ it would be done.
  22. All things, whatever ya ask in talking to God, believing, ya will receive.”
  23. When he had come through through into the God's house, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to him as he was teaching, and said, “By what authority do ya do these things? Who gave ya this authority?”
  24. Jesus answered them, “I also will ask ya one question, which if ya tell me, I likewise will tell ya by what authority I do these things.
  25. The baptism of John, where was it from? From heaven or from men?” They reasoned with themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will ask us, ‘Why then did ya not believe him?’
  26. But if we say, ‘From men,’ we fear the multitude, for all hold John as a God's messenger.”
  27. They answered Jesus, and said, “We don’t get it.” He also said to them, “Neither will I tell ya by what authority I do these things.
  28. But what do ya think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first, and said, ‘Son, slide work today in my vineyard.’
  29. He answered, ‘I won't,’ but afterward he changed his mind, and went.
  30. He came to the second, and said the same thing. He answered, ‘I slide, sir,’ but he didn’t slide.
  31. Which of the two did the will of his father?” They said to him, “The first.” Jesus said to them, “Most for sure I tell ya that the tax collectors and the prostitutes are entering into the God's squad of God before ya.
  32. For John came to ya in the way of righteousness, and ya didn’t believe him, but the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him. When ya saw it, ya didn’t even turn it around afterward, that ya might believe him.
  33. “Hear another parable. there was a man who was a boss of a household, who planted a vineyard, set a hedge about it, dug a winepress in it, built a tower, leased it out to farmers, and went into another country.
  34. When the season for the fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the farmers, to receive his fruit.
  35. The farmers took his servants, beat one, killed another, and stoned another.
  36. Again, he sent other servants more than the first: and they treated them the same way.
  37. But afterward he sent to them his son, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’
  38. But the farmers, when they saw the son, said among themselves, ‘This is the heir. come through through, let’s kill him, and seize his inheritance.’
  39. So they took him, and threw him out of the vineyard, and killed him.
  40. When so basically Boss of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those farmers?”
  41. They told him, “He will miserably tear down those miserable men, and will lease out the vineyard to other farmers, who will hook it up him the fruit in its season.”
  42. Jesus said to them, “Did ya never read in the Scriptures, ‘The stone which the builders rejected, the same was made the head of the corner. This was from Boss. It is marvelous in our eyes?’
  43. “so basically I tell ya, the God's squad of God will be taken away from ya, and will be given to a nation bringing forth its fruit.
  44. He who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, but on whomever it will fall, it will scatter him as dust.”
  45. When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they perceived that he spoke about them.
  46. When they sought to seize him, they feared the multitudes, cuz they considered him to be a God's messenger.
