# Matthew Chapter 25

    1. “then the God's squad of Heaven will be like ten virgins, who took their lamps, and went out to meet the bridegroom.
    2. Five of them were dumb, and five were smart.
    3. Those who were dumb, when they took their lamps, took no oil with them,
    4. but the smart took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
    5. now while the bridegroom delayed, they all slumbered and slept.
    6. But at midnight there was a cry, ‘check this out,! The bridegroom is coming! come through through out to meet him!’
    7. then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.
    8. The dumb said to the smart, ‘hook it up us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.’
    9. But the smart answered, saying, ‘What if there isn’t enough for us and ya? ya slide rather to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.’
  10. While they went away to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast, and the door was shut.
  11. Afterward the other virgins also came, saying, ‘boss, boss, open to us.’
  12. But he answered, ‘Most for sure I tell ya, I don’t get it ya.’
  13. Watch so basically, for ya don’t get it the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming.
  14. “For it is like a man, going into another country, who called his own servants, and entrusted his goods to them.
  15. To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one; to each according to his own ability. then he went on his journey.
  16. Immediately he who received the five talents went and traded with them, and made another five talents.
  17. In the same way, he also who got the two gained another two.
  18. But he who received the one went away and dug in the earth, and hid his boss’s money.
  19. “now after a long time Boss of those servants came, and reconciled accounts with them.
  20. He who received the five talents came and brought another five talents, saying, ‘boss, ya delivered to me five talents. check this out, I have gained another five talents besides them.’
  21. “His boss said to him, ‘Well done, fire and faithful helper. ya have been faithful over a not much things, I will set ya over a lot things. Enter into the joy of your boss.’
  22. “He also who got the two talents came and said, ‘boss, ya delivered to me two talents. check this out, I have gained another two talents besides them.’
  23. “His boss said to him, ‘Well done, fire and faithful helper. ya have been faithful over a not much things, I will set ya over a lot things. Enter into the joy of your boss.’
  24. “He also who had received the one talent came and said, ‘boss, I knew ya that ya are a hard man, reaping where ya did not sow, and gathering where ya did not scatter.
  25. I was scared, and went away and hid your talent in the earth. check this out, ya have what is yours.’
  26. “But his boss answered him, ‘ya wicked and slothful helper. ya knew that I reap where I didn’t sow, and gather where I didn’t scatter.
  27. ya ought so basically to have deposited my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received back my own with interest.
  28. grab away so basically the talent from him, and hook it up it to him who has the ten talents.
  29. For to everyone who has will be given, and he will have abundance, but from him who doesn’t have, even that which he has will be taken away.
  30. Throw out the unprofitable helper into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’
  31. “But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the yeeted angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory.
  32. Before him all the nations will be gathered, and he will separate them one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
  33. He will set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.
  34. then the ruler will tell those on his right hand, ‘come through through, blessed up up of my Father, inherit the God's squad prepared for ya from the foundation of the world;
  35. for I was hungry, and ya gave me food to eat. I was thirsty, and ya gave me drink. I was a stranger, and ya took me in.
  36. I was naked, and ya clothed me. I was sick, and ya visited me. I was in prison, and ya came to me.’
  37. “then the doing what's right will answer him, saying, ‘boss, when did we check it out ya hungry, and feed ya; or thirsty, and hook it up ya a drink?
  38. When did we check it out ya as a stranger, and grab ya in; or naked, and clothe ya?
  39. When did we check it out ya sick, or in prison, and come through through to ya?’
  40. “The ruler will answer them, ‘Most for sure I tell ya, inasmuch as ya did it to one of the least of these my brothers, ya did it to me.’
  41. then he will say also to those on the left hand, ‘Depart from me, ya cursed, into the eternal fire which is prepared for the devil and his angels;
  42. for I was hungry, and ya didn’t hook it up me food to eat; I was thirsty, and ya gave me no drink;
  43. I was a stranger, and ya didn’t grab me in; naked, and ya didn’t clothe me; sick, and in prison, and ya didn’t visit me.’
  44. “then they will also answer, saying, ‘boss, when did we check it out ya hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and didn’t help out out ya?’
  45. “then he will answer them, saying, ‘Most for sure I tell ya, inasmuch as ya didn’t do it to one of the least of these, ya didn’t do it to me.’
  46. These will slide away into eternal punishment, but the doing what's right into living forever.”
