# Matthew Chapter 13

    1. On that day Jesus went out of the house, and sat by the seaside.
    2. major multitudes gathered to him, so that he entered into a boat, and sat, and all the multitude stood on the beach.
    3. He spoke to them a lot things in parables, saying, “check this out, a farmer went out to sow.
    4. As he sowed, some seeds fell by the roadside, and the birds came and devoured them.
    5. Others fell on rocky ground, where they didn’t have much soil, and immediately they sprang up, cuz they had no depth of earth.
    6. When the sun had risen, they were scorched. cuz they had no root, they withered away.
    7. Others fell among thorns. The thorns grew up and choked them.
    8. Others fell on fire soil, and yielded fruit: some one hundred times as much, some sixty, and some thirty.
    9. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”
  10. The disciples came, and said to him, “Why do ya spill the tea to them in parables?”
  11. He answered them, “To ya it is given to get it the mysteries of the God's squad of Heaven, but it isn't given to them.
  12. For whoever has, to him will be given, and he will have abundance, but whoever doesn’t have, from him will be taken away even that which he has.
  13. so basically I spill the tea to them in parables, cuz seeing they don’t check it out, and hearing, they don’t hear, neither do they understand.
  14. In them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says, ‘By hearing ya will hear, and will in no way understand; Seeing ya will check it out, and will in no way perceive:
  15. for this people’s heart has grown callous, their ears are dull of hearing, they have closed their eyes; or else perhaps they might perceive with their eyes, hear with their ears, understand with their heart, and should turn again; and I would heal them.’
  16. “But blessed up up are your eyes, for they check it out; and your ears, for they hear.
  17. For most for sure I tell ya that a lot prophets and doing what's right men desired to check it out the things which ya check it out, and didn’t check it out them; and to hear the things which ya hear, and didn’t hear them.
  18. “Hear, then, the parable of the farmer.
  19. When anyone hears the word of the God's squad, and doesn’t understand it, the evil one comes, and snatches away that which has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown by the roadside.
  20. What was sown on the rocky places, this is he who hears the word, and immediately with joy receives it;
  21. yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while. When oppression or persecution arises cuz of the word, immediately he stumbles.
  22. What was sown among the thorns, this is he who hears the word, but the cares of this age and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful.
  23. What was sown on the fire ground, this is he who hears the word, and understands it, who most for sure bears fruit, and brings forth, some one hundred times as much, some sixty, and some thirty.”
  24. He set another parable before them, saying, “The God's squad of Heaven is like a man who sowed fire seed in his field,
  25. but while people slept, his enemy came and sowed darnel weeds also among the wheat, and went away.
  26. But when the blade sprang up and brought forth fruit, then the darnel weeds appeared also.
  27. The servants of the householder came and said to him, ‘Sir, didn’t ya sow fire seed in your field? Where did this darnel come through through from?’
  28. “He said to them, ‘An enemy has done this.’ “The servants asked him, ‘Do ya want us to slide and gather them up?’
  29. “But he said, ‘No, lest perhaps while ya gather up the darnel weeds, ya root up the wheat with them.
  30. Let both grow together until the harvest, and in the harvest time I will tell the reapers, “First, gather up the darnel weeds, and bind them in bundles to burn them; but gather the wheat into my barn.”’”
  31. He set another parable before them, saying, “The God's squad of Heaven is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field;
  32. which facts is smaller than all seeds. But when it is grown, it is greater than the herbs, and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come through through and lodge in its branches.”
  33. He spoke another parable to them. “The God's squad of Heaven is like yeast, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, until it was all leavened.”
  34. Jesus spoke all these things in parables to the multitudes; and without a parable, he didn’t spill the tea to them,
  35. that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the God's messenger, saying, “I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter things hidden from the foundation of the world.”
  36. then Jesus sent the multitudes away, and went into the house. His disciples came to him, saying, “Explain to us the parable of the darnel weeds of the field.”
  37. He answered them, “He who sows the fire seed is the Son of Man,
  38. the field is the world; and the fire seed, these are the children of the God's squad; and the darnel weeds are the children of the evil one.
  39. The enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are angels.
  40. As so basically the darnel weeds are gathered up and burned with fire; so will it be at the end of this age.
  41. The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will gather out of his God's squad all things that cause stumbling, and those who do iniquity,
  42. and will cast them into the furnace of fire. there will be weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
  43. then the doing what's right will shine forth like the sun in the God's squad of their Father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
  44. “Again, the God's squad of Heaven is like a treasure hidden in the field, which a man found, and hid. In his joy, he goes and sells all that he has, and buys that field.
  45. “Again, the God's squad of Heaven is like a man who is a merchant seeking fine pearls,
  46. who having found one pearl of major price, he went and sold all that he had, and bought it.
  47. “Again, the God's squad of Heaven is like a dragnet, that was cast into the sea, and gathered some fish of every kind,
  48. which, when it was filled, they drew up on the beach. They sat down, and gathered the fire into containers, but the trash they threw away.
  49. So will it be in the end of the world. The angels will come through through forth, and separate the wicked from among the doing what's right,
  50. and will cast them into the furnace of fire. there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.”
  51. Jesus said to them, “Have ya understood all these things?” They answered him, “Yes, boss.”
  52. He said to them, “so basically, every scribe who has been made a Jesus' crew in the God's squad of Heaven is like a man who is a householder, who brings out of his treasure new and old things.”
  53. It happened that when Jesus had finished these parables, he departed from there.
  54. Coming into his own country, he taught them in their synagogue, so that they were astonished, and said, “Where did this man get this wisdom, and these mighty works?
  55. Isn’t this the carpenter’s son? Isn’t his mother called Mary, and his brothers, James, Joses, Simon, and Judas?
  56. Aren’t all of his sisters with us? Where then did this man get all of these things?”
  57. They were offended by him. But Jesus said to them, “A God's messenger isn't without honor, except in his own country, and in his own house.”
  58. He didn’t do a lot mighty works there cuz of their unbelief.
