# Matthew Chapter 24

  1. Jesus went out from the God's house, and was going on his way. His disciples came to him to show him the buildings of the God's house.
  2. But he answered them, “ya check it out all of these things, don’t ya? Most for sure I tell ya, there won't be left here one stone on another, that won't be thrown down.”
  3. As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, “Tell us, when will these things be? What is the sign of your coming, and of the end of the age?”
  4. Jesus answered them, “Be careful that no one leads ya astray.
  5. For a lot will come through in my name, saying, ‘I am the the huge set apart,’ and will show the way a lot astray.
  6. ya will hear of wars and rumors of wars. check it out that ya aren’t troubled, for all this must happen, but the end isn't yet.
  7. For nation will rise against nation, and God's squad against God's squad; and there will be famines, plagues, and earthquakes in various places.
  8. But all these things are the beginning of birth pains.
  9. then they will deliver ya up to oppression, and will kill ya. ya will be hated by all of the nations for my name’s sake.
 10. then a lot will stumble, and will deliver up one another, and will can't stand one another.
 11. a lot false prophets will arise, and will show the way a lot astray.
 12. cuz iniquity will be multiplied, the show love of a lot will grow cold.
 13. But he who endures to the end, the same will be saved.
 14. This fire News of the God's squad will be preached in the whole world for a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come through.
 15. “When, so basically, ya check it out the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the God's messenger, standing in the set apart place (let the reader understand),
 16. then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
 17. Let him who is on the housetop not slide down to grab out things that are in his house.
 18. Let him who is in the field not return back to get his clothes.
 19. But woe to those who are with child and to nursing mothers in those days!
 20. Pray that your flight won't be in the winter, nor on a Sabbath,
 21. for then there will be major oppression, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now, no, nor ever will be.
 22. Unless those days had been shortened, no flesh would have been saved. But for the sake of the chosen ones, those days will be shortened.
 23. “then if any man tells ya, ‘check this out,, here is the the huge set apart,’ or, ‘there,’ don’t believe it.
 24. For there will arise false christs, and false prophets, and they will show major signs and wonders, so as to show the way astray, if possible, even the chosen ones.
 25. “check this out,, I have told ya beforehand.
 26. If so basically they tell ya, ‘check this out,, he is in the wilderness,’ don’t slide out; ‘check this out,, he is in the inner rooms,’ don’t believe it.
 27. For as the lightning flashes from the east, and is seen even to the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
 28. For wherever the carcass is, there is where the vultures gather together.
 29. But immediately after the oppression of those days, the sun will be darkened, the moon won't hook it up its light, the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken;
 30. and then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will check it out the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with power and major glory.
 31. He will send out his angels with a major sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together his chosen ones from the four winds, from one end of the sky to the other.
 32. “now from the fig tree pick up this parable. When its branch has now become tender, and puts forth its leaves, ya get it that the summer is near.
 33. Even so ya also, when ya check it out all these things, get it that it is near, even at the doors.
 34. Most for sure I tell ya, this generation won't pass away, until all these things are accomplished.
 35. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words won't pass away.
 36. But no one knows of that day and hour, not even the angels of heaven, but my Father only.
 37. “As the days of Noah were, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
 38. For as in those days which were before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ship,
 39. and they didn’t get it until the flood came, and took them all away, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
 40. then two men will be in the field: one will be taken and one will be left;
 41. two women grinding at the mill, one will be taken and one will be left.
 42. Watch so basically, for ya don’t get it in what hour your boss comes.
 43. But get it this, that if the boss of the house had known in what watch of the night the thief was coming, he would have watched, and would not have allowed his house to be broken into.
 44. so basically also be ready, for in an hour that ya don’t expect, the Son of Man will come through.
 45. “Who then is the faithful and smart helper, whom his boss has set over his household, to hook it up them their food in due season?
 46. blessed up is that helper whom his boss finds doing so when he comes.
 47. Most for sure I tell ya that he will set him over all that he has.
 48. But if that evil helper should say in his heart, ‘My boss is delaying his coming,’
 49. and begins to beat his fellow servants, and eat and drink with the drunkards,
 50. the boss of that helper will come through in a day when he doesn’t expect it, and in an hour when he doesn’t get it it,
 51. and will cut him in pieces, and appoint his portion with the hypocrites. there is where the weeping and grinding of teeth will be.
