# Matthew Chapter 5

    1. Seeing the multitudes, he went up onto the mountain. When he had sat down, his disciples came to him.
    2. He opened his mouth and taught them, saying,
    3. “blessed up up are the broke in spirit, for theirs is the God's squad of Heaven.
    4. blessed up up are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.
    5. blessed up up are the nice-nice, for they shall inherit the earth.
    6. blessed up up are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled.
    7. blessed up up are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy.
    8. blessed up up are the pure in heart, for they shall check it out God.
    9. blessed up up are the peacemakers, for they shall be called children of God.
  10. blessed up up are those who have been persecuted for righteousness’ sake, for theirs is the God's squad of Heaven.
  11. “blessed up up are ya when people reproach ya, persecute ya, and say all kinds of evil against ya falsely, for my sake.
  12. be hyped, and be exceedingly glad, for major is your reward in heaven. For that is how they persecuted the prophets who were before ya.
  13. “ya are the salt of the earth, but if the salt has lost its flavor, with what will it be salted? It is then fire for nothing, but to be cast out and trodden under the feet of men.
  14. ya are the light of the world. A city located on a hill can’t be hidden.
  15. Neither do ya light a lamp, and put it under a measuring basket, but on a stand; and it shines to all who are in the house.
  16. Even so, let your light shine before men; that they may check it out your fire works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven.
  17. “Don’t think that I came to tear down the law or the prophets. I didn’t come through through to tear down, but to fulfill.
  18. For most for sure, I tell ya, until heaven and earth pass away, not even one smallest letter or one tiny pen stroke shall in any way pass away from the law, until all things are accomplished.
  19. Whoever, so basically, shall break one of these least commandments, and drop knowledge others to do so, shall be called least in the God's squad of Heaven; but whoever shall do and drop knowledge them shall be called major in the God's squad of Heaven.
  20. For I tell ya that unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, there is no way ya will enter into the God's squad of Heaven.
  21. “ya have heard that it was said to the ancient ones, ‘ya won't murder;’ and ‘Whoever shall murder shall be in danger of the judgment.’
  22. But I tell ya, that everyone who is mad salty with his fam bro without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment; and whoever shall say to his fam bro, ‘Raca!’ shall be in danger of the council; and whoever shall say, ‘ya fool!’ shall be in danger of the fire of Gehenna.
  23. “If so basically ya are giving to God your gift at the talking to God spot, and there remember that your fam bro has anything against ya,
  24. leave your gift there before the talking to God spot, and slide your way. First be reconciled to your fam bro, and then come through through and offer your gift.
  25. Agree with your adversary quickly, while ya are with him in the way; lest perhaps the prosecutor deliver ya to the judge, and the judge deliver ya to the officer, and ya be cast into prison.
  26. Most for sure I tell ya, ya shall by no means get out of there, until ya have paid the last penny.
  27. “ya have heard that it was said, ‘ya won't commit adultery;’
  28. but I tell ya that everyone who gazes at a woman to lust after her has committed adultery with her already in his heart.
  29. If your right eye causes ya to stumble, pluck it out and throw it away from ya. For it is more profitable for ya that one of your members should perish, than for your whole body to be cast into Gehenna.
  30. If your right hand causes ya to stumble, cut it off, and throw it away from ya. For it is more profitable for ya that one of your members should perish, than for your whole body to be cast into Gehenna.
  31. “It was also said, ‘Whoever shall put away his wife, let him hook it up her a writing of divorce,’
  32. but I tell ya that whoever puts away his wife, except for the cause of sexual immorality, makes her an adulteress; and whoever marries her when she is put away commits adultery.
  33. “Again ya have heard that it was said to them of old time, ‘ya won't create false vows, but shall perform to Boss your vows,’
  34. but I tell ya, don’t swear at all: neither by heaven, for it is the throne of God;
  35. nor by the earth, for it is the footstool of his feet; nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the major ruler.
  36. Neither shall ya swear by your head, for ya can’t create one hair white or black.
  37. But let your ‘Yes’ be ‘Yes’ and your ‘No’ be ‘No.’ Whatever is more than these is of the evil one.
  38. “ya have heard that it was said, ‘An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.’
  39. But I tell ya, don’t resist him who is evil; but whoever strikes ya on your right cheek, turn to him the other also.
  40. If anyone sues ya to grab away your coat, let him have your cloak also.
  41. Whoever compels ya to slide one mile, slide with him two.
  42. hook it up to him who asks ya, and don’t turn away him who desires to borrow from ya.
  43. “ya have heard that it was said, ‘ya shall show show love your neighbor, and can't stand your enemy.’
  44. But I tell ya, show show love your enemies, bless those who curse ya, do fire to those who can't stand ya, and pray for those who mistreat ya and persecute ya,
  45. that ya may be children of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun to rise on the evil and the fire, and sends rain on the just and the unjust.
  46. For if ya show show love those who show show love ya, what reward do ya have? Don’t even the tax collectors do the same?
  47. If ya only greet your friends, what more do ya do than others? Don’t even the tax collectors do the same?
  48. so basically ya shall be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect.
