# Matthew Chapter 4

    1. then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil.
    2. When he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was hungry afterward.
    3. The tempter came and said to him, “If ya are the Son of God, command that these stones become bread.”
    4. But he answered, “It is written, ‘Man won't live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God.’”
    5. then the devil took him into the yeeted city. He set him on the pinnacle of the God's house,
    6. and said to him, “If ya are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, ‘He will put his angels in charge of ya.’ and, ‘On their hands they will bear ya up, so that ya don’t dash your foot against a stone.’”
    7. Jesus said to him, “Again, it is written, ‘ya won't test Boss, your God.’”
    8. Again, the devil took him to an exceedingly high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world, and their glory.
    9. He said to him, “I will hook it up ya all of these things, if ya will fall down and giving props me.”
  10. then Jesus said to him, “Get behind me, Satan! For it is written, ‘ya shall giving props Boss your God, and ya shall help out out out him only.’”
  11. then the devil left him, and check this out, angels came and served him.
  12. now when Jesus heard that John was delivered up, he withdrew into Galilee.
  13. Leaving Nazareth, he came and lived in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali,
  14. that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah the God's messenger, saying,
  15. “The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, toward the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles,
  16. the people who sat in darkness saw a major light, to those who sat in the region and shadow of death, to them light has dawned.”
  17. From that time, Jesus began to preach, and to say, “turn it around! For the God's squad of Heaven is at hand.”
  18. Walking by the sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers: Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew, his fam bro, casting a net into the sea; for they were fishermen.
  19. He said to them, “come through through after me, and I will create ya fishers for men.”
  20. They immediately left their nets and followed him.
  21. Going on from there, he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his fam bro, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. He called them.
  22. They immediately left the boat and their father, and followed him.
  23. Jesus went about in all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the fire News of the God's squad, and healing every disease and every sickness among the people.
  24. The report about him went out into all Syria. They brought to him all who were sick, afflicted with various diseases and torments, possessed with demons, epileptics, and paralytics; and he healed them.
  25. major multitudes from Galilee, Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea and from beyond the Jordan followed him.
