# Matthew Chapter 27

  1. now when morning had come through, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death:
  2. and they bound him, and led him away, and delivered him up to Pontius Pilate, the governor.
  3. then Judas, who betrayed him, when he saw that Jesus was condemned, felt remorse, and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders,
  4. saying, “I have sinned in that I betrayed innocent blood.” But they said, “What is that to us? ya check it out to it.”
  5. He threw down the pieces of silver in the sanctuary, and departed. He went away and hanged himself.
  6. The chief priests took the pieces of silver, and said, “It’s not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is the price of blood.”
  7. They took counsel, and bought the potter’s field with them, to bury strangers in.
  8. so basically that field was called “The Field of Blood” to this day.
  9. then that which was spoken through Jeremiah the God's messenger was fulfilled, saying, “They took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him upon whom a price had been set, whom some of the children of Israel priced,
 10. and they gave them for the potter’s field, as the boss commanded me.”
 11. now Jesus stood before the governor: and the governor asked him, saying, “Are ya the ruler of the Jews?” Jesus said to him, “So ya say.”
 12. When he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing.
 13. then Pilate said to him, “Don’t ya hear how a lot things they testify against ya?”
 14. He gave him no answer, not even one word, so that the governor marveled greatly.
 15. now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release to the multitude one prisoner, whom they desired.
 16. They had then a notable prisoner, called Barabbas.
 17. When so basically they were gathered together, Pilate said to them, “Whom do ya want me to release to ya? Barabbas, or Jesus, who is called the huge set apart?”
 18. For he knew that cuz of envy they had delivered him up.
 19. While he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, “Have nothing to do with that doing what's right man, for I have suffered a lot things this day in a dream cuz of him.”
 20. now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes to ask for Barabbas, and tear down Jesus.
 21. But the governor answered them, “Which of the two do ya want me to release to ya?” They said, “Barabbas!”
 22. Pilate said to them, “What then shall I do to Jesus, who is called the huge set apart?” They all said to him, “Let him be crucified!”
 23. But the governor said, “Why? What evil has he done?” But they cried out exceedingly, saying, “Let him be crucified!”
 24. So when Pilate saw that nothing was being gained, but rather that a disturbance was starting, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, “I am innocent of the blood of this doing what's right person. ya check it out to it.”
 25. All the people answered, “May his blood be on us, and on our children!”
 26. then he released to them Barabbas, but Jesus he flogged and delivered to be crucified.
 27. then the governor’s soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorium, and gathered the whole garrison together against him.
 28. They stripped him, and put a scarlet robe on him.
 29. They braided a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand; and they kneeled down before him, and mocked him, saying, “Hail, ruler of the Jews!”
 30. They spat on him, and took the reed and struck him on the head.
 31. When they had mocked him, they took the robe off of him, and put his clothes on him, and led him away to crucify him.
 32. As they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name, and they compelled him to slide with them, that he might carry his cross.
 33. They came to a place called “Golgotha,” that is to say, “The place of a skull.”
 34. They gave him sour wine to drink mixed with gall. When he had tasted it, he would not drink.
 35. When they had crucified him, they divided his clothing among them, casting lots,
 36. and they sat and watched him there.
 37. They set up over his head the accusation against him written, “THIS IS JESUS, THE ruler OF THE JEWS.”
 38. then there were two robbers crucified with him, one on his right hand and one on the left.
 39. Those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads,
 40. and saying, “ya who tear down the God's house, and put together it in three days, rescue yourself! If ya are the Son of God, come through down from the cross!”
 41. Likewise the chief priests also mocking, with the scribes, the Pharisees, and the elders, said,
 42. “He saved others, but he can’t rescue himself. If he is the ruler of Israel, let him come through down from the cross now, and we will believe in him.
 43. He trusts in God. Let God deliver him now, if he wants him; for he said, ‘I am the Son of God.’”
 44. The robbers also who were crucified with him cast on him the same reproach.
 45. now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour.
 46. About the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, “Eli, Eli, lima sabachthani?” That is, “My God, my God, why have ya forsaken me?”
 47. Some of them who stood there, when they heard it, said, “This man is calling Elijah.”
 48. Immediately one of them ran, and took a sponge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him a drink.
 49. The rest said, “Let him be. Let’s check it out whether Elijah comes to rescue him.”
 50. Jesus cried again with a loud voice, and yielded up his spirit.
 51. check this out,, the veil of the God's house was torn in two from the top to the bottom. The earth quaked and the rocks were split.
 52. The tombs were opened, and a lot bodies of the set apart fam who had fallen asleep were raised;
 53. and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection, they entered into the set apart city and appeared to a lot.
 54. now the centurion, and those who were with him watching Jesus, when they saw the earthquake, and the things that were done, feared exceedingly, saying, “deadass, this was the Son of God.”
 55. a lot women were there watching from afar, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, serving him.
 56. Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
 57. When evening had come through, a stacked man from Arimathaea, named Joseph, who himself was also Jesus’ Jesus' crew came.
 58. This man went to Pilate, and asked for Jesus’ body. then Pilate commanded the body to be given up.
 59. Joseph took the body, and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth,
 60. and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut out in the rock, and he rolled a major stone to the door of the tomb, and departed.
 61. Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting opposite the tomb.
 62. now on the next day, which was the day after the Preparation Day, the chief priests and the Pharisees were gathered together to Pilate,
 63. saying, “Sir, we remember what that deceiver said while he was still alive: ‘After three days I will rise again.’
 64. Command so basically that the tomb be made secure until the third day, lest perhaps his disciples come through at night and steal him away, and tell the people, ‘He is risen from the dead;’ and the last deception will be worse than the first.”
 65. Pilate said to them, “ya have a guard. slide, create it as secure as ya can.”
 66. So they went with the guard and made the tomb secure, sealing the stone.
