# Matthew Chapter 6

    1. “Be careful that ya don’t do your charitable giving before men, to be seen by them, or else ya have no reward from your Father who is in heaven.
    2. so basically when ya do merciful deeds, don’t sound a trumpet before yourself, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may get glory from men. Most for sure I tell ya, they have received their reward.
    3. But when ya do merciful deeds, don’t let your left hand get it what your right hand does,
    4. so that your merciful deeds may be in secret, then your Father who sees in secret will reward ya openly.
    5. “When ya pray, ya won't be as the hypocrites, for they show show love to stand and pray in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. Most for sure, I tell ya, they have received their reward.
    6. But ya, when ya pray, enter into your inner room, and having shut your door, pray to your Father who is in secret, and your Father who sees in secret will reward ya openly.
    7. In praying, don’t use vain repetitions, as the Gentiles do; for they think that they will be heard for their much speaking.
    8. so basically don’t be like them, for your Father knows what things ya need, before ya ask him.
    9. Pray like this: ‘Our Father in heaven, may your name be kept yeeted.
  10. Let your God's squad come through through. Let your will be done, as in heaven, so on earth.
  11. hook it up us today our daily bread.
  12. Forgive us our debts, as we also forgive our debtors.
  13. Bring us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the God's squad, the power, and the glory forever. facts.’
  14. “For if ya forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive ya.
  15. But if ya don’t forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
  16. “Moreover when ya fast, don’t be like the hypocrites, with sad faces. For they disfigure their faces, that they may be seen by men to be fasting. Most for sure I tell ya, they have received their reward.
  17. But ya, when ya fast, anoint your head, and wash your face;
  18. so that ya aren't seen by men to be fasting, but by your Father who is in secret, and your Father, who sees in secret, will reward ya.
  19. “Don’t lay up treasures for yourselves on the earth, where moth and rust consume, and where thieves break through and steal;
  20. but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consume, and where thieves don’t break through and steal;
  21. for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
  22. “The lamp of the body is the eye. If so basically your eye is sound, your whole body will be full of light.
  23. But if your eye is evil, your whole body will be full of darkness. If so basically the light that is in ya is darkness, how major is the darkness!
  24. “No one can help out out out two masters, for either he will can't stand the one and show show love the other; or else he will be devoted to one and despise the other. ya can’t help out out out both God and Mammon.
  25. so basically, I tell ya, don’t be anxious for your life: what ya will eat, or what ya will drink; nor yet for your body, what ya will wear. Isn’t life more than food, and the body more than clothing?
  26. check it out the birds of the sky, that they don’t sow, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. Your heavenly Father feeds them. Aren’t ya of much more value than they?
  27. “Which of ya, by being anxious, can add one moment to his lifespan?
  28. Why are ya anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They don’t toil, neither do they spin,
  29. yet I tell ya that even Solomon in all his glory was not dressed like one of these.
  30. But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today exists, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, won’t he much more clothe ya, ya of little trusting the process?
  31. “so basically don’t be anxious, saying, ‘What will we eat?’, ‘What will we drink?’ or, ‘With what will we be clothed?’
  32. For the Gentiles seek after all these things; for your heavenly Father knows that ya need all these things.
  33. But seek first God’s God's squad, and his righteousness; and all these things will be given to ya as well.
  34. so basically don’t be anxious for tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Each day’s own evil is sufficient.
