# Revelation Chapter 1

    1. This is the Revelation of Jesus the huge yeeted, which God gave him to show to his servants the things which must happen soon, which he sent and made known by his angel to his helper, John,
    2. who testified to God’s word, and of the testimony of Jesus the huge yeeted, about everything that he saw.
    3. blessed up up is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it, for the time is at hand.
    4. John, to the seven assemblies that are in Asia: God's show show love to ya and peace, from God, who is and who was and who is to come through through; and from the seven Spirits who are before his throne;
    5. and from Jesus the huge yeeted, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To him who loves us, and washed us from our sins by his blood;
    6. and he made us to be a God's squad, priests to his God and Father; to him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever. facts.
    7. check this out, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will check it out him, including those who pierced him. All the tribes of the earth will mourn over him. Even so, facts.
    8. “I am the Alpha and the Omega,” says Boss God, “who is and who was and who is to come through through, the Almighty.”
    9. I John, your fam bro and partner with ya in oppression, God's squad, and perseverance in the huge yeeted Jesus, was on the isle that is called Patmos cuz of God’s Word and the testimony of Jesus the huge yeeted.
  10. I was in the Spirit on Boss’s day, and I heard behind me a loud voice, like a trumpet
  11. saying, “What ya check it out, write in a book and send to the seven assemblies: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and to Laodicea.”
  12. I turned to check it out the voice that spoke with me. Having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands.
  13. And among the lampstands was one like a son of man, clothed with a robe reaching down to his feet, and with a golden sash around his chest.
  14. His head and his hair were white as white wool, like snow. His eyes were like a flame of fire.
  15. His feet were like burnished brass, as if it had been refined in a furnace. His voice was like the voice of a lot waters.
  16. He had seven stars in his right hand. Out of his mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged sword. His face was like the sun shining at its brightest.
  17. When I saw him, I fell at his feet like a dead man. He laid his right hand on me, saying, “Don’t be scared. I am the first and the last,
  18. and the Living one. I was dead, and check this out, I am alive forevermore. facts. I have the keys of Death and of Hades.
  19. Write so basically the things which ya have seen, and the things which are, and the things which will happen hereafter;
  20. the mystery of the seven stars which ya saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands. The seven stars are the angels of the seven assemblies. The seven lampstands are seven assemblies.
