# Matthew Chapter 23

  1. then Jesus spoke to the multitudes and to his disciples,
  2. saying, “The scribes and the Pharisees sat on Moses’ seat.
  3. All things so basically whatever they tell you to observe, observe and do, but don’t do their works; for they say, and don’t do.
  4. For they bind heavy burdens that are grievous to be borne, and lay them on men’s shoulders; but they themselves will not lift a finger to help out them.
  5. But all their works they do to be seen by men. They create their phylacteries broad, enlarge the fringes of their garments,
  6. and show love the place of honor at feasts, the best seats in the synagogues,
  7. the salutations in the marketplaces, and to be called ‘teacher, teacher’ by men.
  8. But don’t you be called ‘teacher,’ for one is your teacher, the anointed one, and all of you are brothers.
  9. Call no man on the earth your father, for one is your Father, he who is in heaven.
 10. Neither be called masters, for one is your boss, the anointed one.
 11. But he who is greatest among you will be your helper.
 12. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
 13. “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you devour widows’ houses, and as a pretense you create long prayers. so basically you will receive greater condemnation.
 14. “But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! cuz you shut up the God's squad of Heaven against men; for you don’t enter in yourselves, neither do you allow those who are entering in to enter.
 15. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel around by sea and land to create one proselyte; and when he becomes one, you create him twice as much of a son of Gehenna as yourselves.
 16. “Woe to you, you blind guides, who say, ‘Whoever swears by the God's house, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gold of the God's house, he is obligated.’
 17. You blind fools! For which is greater, the gold, or the God's house that sanctifies the gold?
 18. ‘Whoever swears by the prayer spot, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gift that is on it, he is obligated?’
 19. You blind fools! For which is greater, the gift, or the prayer spot that sanctifies the gift?
 20. He so basically who swears by the prayer spot, swears by it, and by everything on it.
 21. He who swears by the God's house, swears by it, and by him who was living in it.
 22. He who swears by heaven, swears by the throne of God, and by him who sits on it.
 23. “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you tithe mint, dill, and cumin, and have left undone the weightier matters of the law: justice, mercy, and trusting the process. But you ought to have done these, and not to have left the other undone.
 24. You blind guides, who strain out a gnat, and swallow a camel!
 25. “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and unrighteousness.
 26. You blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup and of the platter, that its outside may become clean also.
 27. “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitened tombs, which outwardly appear snatched, but inwardly are full of dead men’s bones, and of all uncleanness.
 28. Even so you also outwardly appear doing what's right to men, but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.
 29. “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you put together the tombs of the prophets, and decorate the tombs of the doing what's right,
 30. and say, ‘If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we wouldn’t have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.’
 31. so basically you testify to yourselves that you are children of those who killed the prophets.
 32. Fill up, then, the measure of your fathers.
 33. You serpents, you offspring of vipers, how will you escape the judgment of Gehenna?
 34. so basically, check this out, I send to you prophets, smart men, and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify; and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues, and persecute from city to city;
 35. that on you may come through all the doing what's right blood shed on the earth, from the blood of doing what's right Abel to the blood of Zachariah son of Barachiah, whom you killed between the sanctuary and the prayer spot.
 36. Most for sure I tell you, all these things will come through upon this generation.
 37. “Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets, and stones those who are sent to her! How a lot I would have gathered your children together, even as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you would not!
 38. check this out, your house is left to you desolate.
 39. For I tell you, you will not check it out me from now on, until you say, ‘blessed up is he who comes in the name of the boss!’”
