# Matthew Chapter 18

  1. In that hour the disciples came to Jesus, saying, “Who then is greatest in the God's squad of Heaven?”
  2. Jesus called a little child to himself, and set him in their midst,
  3. and said, “Most for sure I tell you, unless you turn, and become as little children, you will in no way enter into the God's squad of Heaven.
  4. Whoever so basically humbles himself as this little child, the same is the greatest in the God's squad of Heaven.
  5. Whoever receives one such little child in my name receives me,
  6. but whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better for him that a huge millstone should be hung around his neck, and that he should be sunk in the depths of the sea.
  7. “Woe to the world cuz of occasions of stumbling! For it must be that the occasions come through, but woe to that person through whom the occasion comes!
  8. If your hand or your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off, and cast it from you. It is better for you to enter into life maimed or crippled, rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into the eternal fire.
  9. If your eye causes you to stumble, pluck it out, and cast it from you. It is better for you to enter into life with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into the Gehenna of fire.
 10. check it out that you don’t despise one of these little ones, for I tell you that in heaven their angels always check it out the face of my Father who is in heaven.
 11. For the Son of Man came to rescue that which was lost.
 12. “What do you think? If a man has one hundred sheep, and one of them goes astray, doesn’t he leave the ninety-nine, slide to the mountains, and seek that which has gone astray?
 13. If he finds it, most for sure I tell you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine which have not gone astray.
 14. Even so it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
 15. “If your brother sins against you, slide, show him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained back your brother.
 16. But if he doesn’t listen up, grab one or two more with you, that at the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.
 17. If he refuses to listen up to them, tell it to the assembly. If he refuses to hear the assembly also, let him be to you as a Gentile or a tax collector.
 18. Most for sure I tell you, whatever things you bind on earth will have been bound in heaven, and whatever things you release on earth will have been released in heaven.
 19. Again, assuredly I tell you, that if two of you will agree on earth concerning anything that they will ask, it will be done for them by my Father who is in heaven.
 20. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there I am in their midst.”
 21. then Peter came and said to him, “boss, how a lot shall my brother messing up against me, and I forgive him? Until seven times?”
 22. Jesus said to him, “I don’t tell you until seven times, but, until seventy times seven.
 23. so basically the God's squad of Heaven is like a certain ruler, who wanted to reconcile accounts with his servants.
 24. When he had begun to reconcile, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents.
 25. But cuz he couldn’t pay, his boss commanded him to be sold, with his wife, his children, and all that he had, and payment to be made.
 26. The helper so basically fell down and kneeled before him, saying, ‘boss, have patience with me, and I will repay you all!’
 27. The boss of that helper, being moved with compassion, released him, and forgave him the debt.
 28. “But that helper went out, and found one of his fellow servants, who owed him one hundred denarii, and he grabbed him, and took him by the throat, saying, ‘Pay me what you owe!’
 29. “So his fellow helper fell down at his feet and begged him, saying, ‘Have patience with me, and I will repay you!’
 30. He would not, but went and cast him into prison, until he should pay back that which was due.
 31. So when his fellow servants checked out what was done, they were exceedingly sorry, and came and told to their boss all that was done.
 32. then his boss called him in, and said to him, ‘You wicked helper! I forgave you all that debt, cuz you begged me.
 33. Shouldn’t you also have had mercy on your fellow helper, even as I had mercy on you?’
 34. His boss was mad salty, and delivered him to the tormentors, until he should pay all that was due to him.
 35. So my heavenly Father will also do to you, if you don’t each forgive your brother from your hearts for his misdeeds.”
