# Matthew Chapter 28

  1. now after the Sabbath, as it began to dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to check it out the tomb.
  2. check this out,, there was a major earthquake, for an angel of the boss descended from the sky, and came and rolled away the stone from the door, and sat on it.
  3. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow.
  4. For fear of him, the guards shook, and became like dead men.
  5. The angel answered the women, “Don’t be scared, for I get it that ya seek Jesus, who has been crucified.
  6. He isn't here, for he has risen, just like he said. come through, check it out the place where the boss was lying.
  7. slide quickly and tell his disciples, ‘He has risen from the dead, and check this out,, he goes before ya into Galilee; there ya will check it out him.’ check this out,, I have told ya.”
  8. They departed quickly from the tomb with fear and major joy, and ran to bring his disciples word.
  9. As they went to tell his disciples, check this out,, Jesus met them, saying, “be hyped!” They came and took hold of his feet, and worshiped him.
 10. then Jesus said to them, “Don’t be scared. slide tell my brothers that they should slide into Galilee, and there they will check it out me.”
 11. now while they were going, check this out,, some of the guards came into the city, and told the chief priests all the things that had happened.
 12. When they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave a large amount of silver to the soldiers,
 13. saying, “Say that his disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept.
 14. If this comes to the governor’s ears, we will persuade him and create ya free of worry.”
 15. So they took the money and did as they were told. This saying was spread abroad among the Jews, and continues until this day.
 16. But the eleven disciples went into Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had sent them.
 17. When they saw him, they bowed down to him, but some doubted.
 18. Jesus came to them and spoke to them, saying, “All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth.
 19. slide, and create disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the set apart Spirit,
 20. teaching them to observe all things that I commanded ya. check this out,, I am with ya always, even to the end of the age.” facts.
