# Matthew Chapter 8

  1. When he came down from the mountain, major multitudes followed him.
  2. check this out,, a leper came to him and worshiped him, saying, “boss, if ya want to, ya can create me clean.”
  3. Jesus stretched out his hand, and touched him, saying, “I want to. Be made clean.” Immediately his leprosy was cleansed.
  4. Jesus said to him, “check it out that ya tell nobody, but slide, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.”
  5. When he came into Capernaum, a centurion came to him, asking him,
  6. and saying, “boss, my helper lies in the house paralyzed, grievously tormented.”
  7. Jesus said to him, “I will come through and heal him.”
  8. The centurion answered, “boss, I’m not worthy for ya to come through under my roof. Just say the word, and my helper will be healed.
  9. For I am also a man under authority, having under myself soldiers. I tell this one, ‘slide,’ and he goes; and tell another, ‘come through,’ and he comes; and tell my helper, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”
 10. When Jesus heard it, he marveled, and said to those who followed, “Most for sure I tell ya, I haven’t found so major a trusting the process, not even in Israel.
 11. I tell ya that a lot will come through from the east and the west, and will sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the God's squad of Heaven,
 12. but the children of the God's squad will be thrown out into the outer darkness. there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.”
 13. Jesus said to the centurion, “slide your way. Let it be done for ya as ya have believed.” His helper was healed in that hour.
 14. When Jesus came into Peter’s house, he saw his wife’s mother lying sick with a fever.
 15. He touched her hand, and the fever left her. She got up and served him.
 16. When evening came, they brought to him a lot possessed with demons. He cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were sick;
 17. that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah the God's messenger, saying: “He took our infirmities, and bore our diseases.”
 18. now when Jesus saw major multitudes around him, he gave the order to depart to the other side.
 19. A scribe came, and said to him, “Teacher, I will roll with ya wherever ya slide.”
 20. Jesus said to him, “The foxes have holes, and the birds of the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.”
 21. Another of his disciples said to him, “boss, allow me first to slide and bury my father.”
 22. But Jesus said to him, “roll with me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead.”
 23. When he got into a boat, his disciples followed him.
 24. check this out,, a violent storm came up on the sea, so much that the boat was covered with the waves, but he was asleep.
 25. They came to him, and woke him up, saying, “rescue us, boss! We are dying!”
 26. He said to them, “Why are ya fearful, O ya of little trusting the process?” then he got up, rebuked the wind and the sea, and there was a major calm.
 27. The men marveled, saying, “What kind of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?”
 28. When he came to the other side, into the country of the Gergesenes, two people possessed by demons met him there, coming out of the tombs, exceedingly fierce, so that nobody could pass that way.
 29. check this out,, they cried out, saying, “What do we have to do with ya, Jesus, Son of God? Have ya come through here to torment us before the time?”
 30. now there was a herd of a lot pigs feeding far away from them.
 31. The demons begged him, saying, “If ya cast us out, permit us to slide away into the herd of pigs.”
 32. He said to them, “slide!” They came out, and went into the herd of pigs: and check this out,, the whole herd of pigs rushed down the cliff into the sea, and died in the water.
 33. Those who fed them fled, and went away into the city, and told everything, including what happened to those who were possessed with demons.
 34. check this out,, all the city came out to meet Jesus. When they saw him, they begged that he would depart from their borders.
