# Matthew Chapter 7

  1. “Don’t judge, so that you won’t be judged.
  2. For with whatever judgment you judge, you will be judged; and with whatever measure you measure, it will be measured to you.
  3. Why do you check it out the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but don’t consider the beam that is in your own eye?
  4. Or how will you tell your brother, ‘Let me remove the speck from your eye;’ and check this out, the beam is in your own eye?
  5. You hypocrite! First remove the beam out of your own eye, and then you can check it out clearly to remove the speck out of your brother’s eye.
  6. “Don’t hook it up that which is set apart to the dogs, neither throw your pearls before the pigs, lest perhaps they trample them under their feet, and turn and tear you to pieces.
  7. “Ask, and it will be given you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened for you.
  8. For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. To him who knocks it will be opened.
  9. Or who is there among you, who, if his son asks him for bread, will hook it up him a stone?
 10. Or if he asks for a fish, who will hook it up him a serpent?
 11. If you then, being evil, get it how to hook it up fire gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven hook it up fire things to those who ask him!
 12. so basically whatever you desire for men to do to you, you shall also do to them; for this is the law and the prophets.
 13. “Enter in by the narrow gate; for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and a lot are those who enter in by it.
 14. How narrow is the gate, and restricted is the way that leads to life! not much are those who find it.
 15. “Beware of false prophets, who come through to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly are ravening wolves.
 16. By their fruits you will get it them. Do you gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles?
 17. Even so, every fire tree produces fire fruit; but the corrupt tree produces evil fruit.
 18. A fire tree can’t produce evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree produce fire fruit.
 19. Every tree that doesn’t grow fire fruit is cut down, and thrown into the fire.
 20. so basically, by their fruits you will get it them.
 21. Not everyone who says to me, ‘boss, boss,’ will enter into the God's squad of Heaven; but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
 22. a lot will tell me in that day, ‘boss, boss, didn’t we prophesy in your name, in your name cast out demons, and in your name do a lot mighty works?’
 23. then I will tell them, ‘I never knew you. Depart from me, you who work iniquity.’
 24. “Everyone so basically who hears these words of mine, and does them, I will liken him to a smart man, who built his house on a rock.
 25. The rain came down, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house; and it didn’t fall, for it was founded on the rock.
 26. Everyone who hears these words of mine, and doesn’t do them will be like a dumb man, who built his house on the sand.
 27. The rain came down, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house; and it fell—and major was its fall.”
 28. It happened, when Jesus had finished saying these things, that the multitudes were astonished at his teaching,
 29. for he taught them with authority, and not like the scribes.
