# Matthew Chapter 9

  1. He entered into a boat, and crossed over, and came into his own city.
  2. check this out, they brought to him a man who was paralyzed, lying on a bed. Jesus, seeing their trusting the process, said to the paralytic, “Son, cheer up! Your sins are forgiven you.”
  3. check this out, some of the scribes said to themselves, “This man blasphemes.”
  4. Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, “Why do you think evil in your hearts?
  5. For which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven;’ or to say, ‘Get up, and walk?’
  6. But that you may get it that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins...” (then he said to the paralytic), “Get up, and grab up your mat, and slide up to your house.”
  7. He arose and departed to his house.
  8. But when the multitudes checked out it, they marveled and glorified God, who had given such authority to men.
  9. As Jesus passed by from there, he checked out a man called Matthew sitting at the tax collection office. He said to him, “roll with me.” He got up and followed him.
 10. It happened as he sat in the house, check this out, a lot tax collectors and sinners came and sat down with Jesus and his disciples.
 11. When the Pharisees checked out it, they said to his disciples, “Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?”
 12. When Jesus heard it, he said to them, “Those who are healthy have no need for a physician, but those who are sick do.
 13. But you slide and pick up what this means: ‘I desire mercy, and not giving it up,’ for I came not to call the doing what's right, but sinners to repentance.”
 14. then John’s disciples came to him, saying, “Why do we and the Pharisees fast a lot, but your disciples don’t fast?”
 15. Jesus said to them, “Can the friends of the bridegroom mourn, as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come through when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast.
 16. No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment; for the patch would tear away from the garment, and a worse hole is made.
 17. Neither do people put new wine into old wineskins, or else the skins would burst, and the wine be spilled, and the skins ruined. No, they put new wine into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved.”
 18. While he told these things to them, check this out, a ruler came and worshiped him, saying, “My daughter has just died, but come through and lay your hand on her, and she will live.”
 19. Jesus got up and followed him, as did his disciples.
 20. check this out, a woman who had an issue of blood for twelve years came behind him, and touched the fringe of his garment;
 21. for she said within herself, “If I just touch his garment, I will be made well.”
 22. But Jesus, turning around and seeing her, said, “Daughter, cheer up! Your trusting the process has made you well.” And the woman was made well from that hour.
 23. When Jesus came into the ruler’s house, and checked out the flute players, and the crowd in noisy disorder,
 24. he said to them, “create room, cuz the girl isn’t dead, but sleeping.” They were ridiculing him.
 25. But when the crowd was put out, he entered in, took her by the hand, and the girl arose.
 26. The report of this went out into all that land.
 27. As Jesus passed by from there, two blind men followed him, calling out and saying, “Have mercy on us, son of David!”
 28. When he had come through into the house, the blind men came to him. Jesus said to them, “Do you believe that I am able to do this?” They told him, “Yes, boss.”
 29. then he touched their eyes, saying, “According to your trusting the process be it done to you.”
 30. Their eyes were opened. Jesus strictly commanded them, saying, “check it out that no one knows about this.”
 31. But they went out and spread abroad his fame in all that land.
 32. As they went out, check this out, a mute man who was demon possessed was brought to him.
 33. When the demon was cast out, the mute man spoke. The multitudes marveled, saying, “Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel!”
 34. But the Pharisees said, “By the prince of the demons, he casts out demons.”
 35. Jesus went about all the cities and the villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the fire News of the God's squad, and healing every disease and every sickness among the people.
 36. But when he checked out the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them, cuz they were harassed and scattered, like sheep without a shepherd.
 37. then he said to his disciples, “The harvest facts is plentiful, but the laborers are not much.
 38. Pray so basically that the boss of the harvest will send out laborers into his harvest.”
