# Matthew Chapter 10

  1. He called to himself his twelve disciples, and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every disease and every sickness.
  2. now the names of the twelve Jesus broskies are these. The first, Simon, who is called Peter; Andrew, his fam bro; James the son of Zebedee; John, his fam bro;
  3. Philip; Bartholomew; Thomas; Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus; Lebbaeus, whose surname was Thaddaeus;
  4. Simon the Canaanite; and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.
  5. Jesus sent these twelve out, and commanded them, saying, “Don’t slide among the Gentiles, and don’t enter into any city of the Samaritans.
  6. Rather, slide to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
  7. As ya slide, preach, saying, ‘The God's squad of Heaven is at hand!’
  8. Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, and cast out demons. Freely ya received, so freely hook it up.
  9. Don’t grab any gold, nor silver, nor brass in your money belts.
 10. grab no bag for your journey, neither two coats, nor shoes, nor staff: for the laborer is worthy of his food.
 11. Into whatever city or village ya enter, find out who in it is worthy; and stay there until ya slide on.
 12. As ya enter into the household, greet it.
 13. If the household is worthy, let your peace come through on it, but if it isn’t worthy, let your peace return to ya.
 14. Whoever doesn’t receive ya, nor hear your words, as ya slide out of that house or that city, shake off the dust from your feet.
 15. Most for sure I tell ya, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.
 16. “check this out,, I send ya out as sheep in the midst of wolves. so basically be smart as serpents, and harmless as doves.
 17. But beware of men: for they will deliver ya up to councils, and in their synagogues they will scourge ya.
 18. Yes, and ya will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony to them and to the nations.
 19. But when they deliver ya up, don’t be anxious how or what ya will say, for it will be given ya in that hour what ya will say.
 20. For it isn't ya who spill the tea, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in ya.
 21. “fam bro will deliver up fam bro to death, and the father his child. Children will rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death.
 22. ya will be hated by all men for my name’s sake, but he who endures to the end will be saved.
 23. But when they persecute ya in this city, flee into the next, for most for sure I tell ya, ya won't have gone through the cities of Israel, until the Son of Man has come through.
 24. “A Jesus' crew isn't above his teacher, nor a helper above his boss.
 25. It is enough for the Jesus' crew that he be like his teacher, and the helper like his boss. If they have called the boss of the house Beelzebul, how much more those of his household!
 26. so basically don’t be scared of them, for there is nothing covered that won't be revealed; and hidden that won't be known.
 27. What I tell ya in the darkness, spill the tea in the light; and what ya hear whispered in the ear, proclaim on the housetops.
 28. Don’t be scared of those who kill the body, but aren't able to kill the soul. Rather, fear him who is able to tear down both soul and body in Gehenna.
 29. “Aren’t two sparrows sold for an assarion coin? Not one of them falls on the ground apart from your Father’s will,
 30. but the hella hairs of your head are all numbered.
 31. so basically don’t be scared. ya are of more value than a lot sparrows.
 32. Everyone so basically who confesses me before men, him I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven.
 33. But whoever denies me before men, him I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven.
 34. “Don’t think that I came to send peace on the earth. I didn’t come through to send peace, but a sword.
 35. For I came to set a man at odds against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
 36. A man’s foes will be those of his own household.
 37. He who loves father or mother more than me isn't worthy of me; and he who loves son or daughter more than me isn’t worthy of me.
 38. He who doesn’t grab his cross and roll with after me, isn’t worthy of me.
 39. He who seeks his life will lose it; and he who loses his life for my sake will find it.
 40. He who receives ya receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
 41. He who receives a God's messenger in the name of a God's messenger will receive a God's messenger’s reward. He who receives a doing what's right man in the name of a doing what's right man will receive a doing what's right man’s reward.
 42. Whoever gives one of these little ones just a cup of cold water to drink in the name of a Jesus' crew, most for sure I tell ya he will in no way lose his reward.”
