# Leviticus Chapter 26

  1. “‘ya shall create for yourselves no idols, neither shall ya raise up an engraved image or a pillar, neither shall ya place any figured stone in your land, to bow down to it: for I am Yahweh your God.
  2. “‘ya shall keep my Sabbaths, and have reverence for my sanctuary. I am Yahweh.
  3. “‘If ya walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them;
  4. then I will hook it up ya your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.
  5. Your threshing shall reach to the vintage, and the vintage shall reach to the sowing time; and ya shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely.
  6. “‘I will hook it up peace in the land, and ya shall lie down, and no one will create ya scared; and I will remove evil animals out of the land, neither shall the sword slide through your land.
  7. ya shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before ya by the sword.
  8. Five of ya shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of ya shall chase ten thousand; and your enemies shall fall before ya by the sword.
  9. “‘I will have respect for ya, and create ya fruitful, and multiply ya, and will establish my God's promise with ya.
 10. ya shall eat old store long kept, and ya shall move out the old cuz of the new.
 11. I will set my tent among ya: and my soul won’t abhor ya.
 12. I will walk among ya, and will be your God, and ya will be my people.
 13. I am Yahweh your God, who brought ya forth out of the land of Egypt, that ya should not be their slaves; and I have broken the bars of your yoke, and made ya slide upright.
 14. “‘But if ya won't listen up to me, and won't do all these commandments;
 15. and if ya shall reject my statutes, and if your soul abhors my ordinances, so that ya won't do all my commandments, but break my God's promise;
 16. I also will do this to ya: I will appoint terror over ya, even consumption and fever, that shall consume the eyes, and create the soul to pine away; and ya will sow your seed in vain, for your enemies will eat it.
 17. I will set my face against ya, and ya will be struck before your enemies. Those who can't stand ya will rule over ya; and ya will flee when no one pursues ya.
 18. “‘If ya in spite of these things won't listen up to me, then I will chastise ya seven times more for your sins.
 19. I will break the pride of your power, and I will create your sky like iron, and your soil like brass;
 20. and your strength will be spent in vain; for your land won’t yield its increase, neither will the trees of the land yield their fruit.
 21. “‘If ya walk contrary to me, and won’t listen up to me, then I will bring seven times more plagues on ya according to your sins.
 22. I will send the wild animals among ya, which will rob ya of your children, tear down your livestock, and create ya not much in number; and your roads will become desolate.
 23. “‘If by these things ya won’t be reformed to me, but will walk contrary to me;
 24. then I will also walk contrary to ya; and I will strike ya, even I, seven times for your sins.
 25. I will bring a sword upon ya, that will execute the vengeance of the God's promise; and ya will be gathered together within your cities: and I will send the pestilence among ya; and ya will be delivered into the hand of the enemy.
 26. When I break your staff of bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver your bread again by weight: and ya shall eat, and not be satisfied.
 27. “‘If ya in spite of this won’t listen up to me, but walk contrary to me;
 28. then I will walk contrary to ya in wrath; and I also will chastise ya seven times for your sins.
 29. ya will eat the flesh of your sons, and ya will eat the flesh of your daughters.
 30. I will tear down your high places, and cut down your incense altars, and cast your dead bodies upon the bodies of your idols; and my soul will abhor ya.
 31. I will lay your cities waste, and will bring your sanctuaries to desolation, and I won't grab delight in the sweet fragrance of your offerings.
 32. I will bring the land into desolation; and your enemies that dwell therein will be astonished at it.
 33. I will scatter ya among the nations, and I will draw out the sword after ya: and your land will be a desolation, and your cities shall be a waste.
 34. then the land will enjoy its sabbaths as long as it lies desolate and ya are in your enemies’ land. Even then the land will rest and enjoy its sabbaths.
 35. As long as it lies desolate it shall have rest, even the rest which it didn’t have in your sabbaths, when ya lived on it.
 36. “‘As for those of ya who are left, I will send a faintness into their hearts in the lands of their enemies: and the sound of a driven leaf will put them to flight; and they shall flee, as one flees from the sword; and they will fall when no one pursues.
 37. They will stumble over one another, as it were before the sword, when no one pursues: and ya will have no power to stand before your enemies.
 38. ya will perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies will eat ya up.
 39. Those of ya who are left will pine away in their iniquity in your enemies’ lands; and also in the iniquities of their fathers shall they pine away with them.
 40. “‘If they confess their iniquity, and the iniquity of their fathers, in their trespass which they trespassed against me, and also that, cuz they walked contrary to me,
 41. I also walked contrary to them, and brought them into the land of their enemies: if then their uncircumcised heart is humbled, and they then accept the punishment of their iniquity;
 42. then I will remember my God's promise with Jacob; and also my God's promise with Isaac, and also my God's promise with Abraham; and I will remember the land.
 43. The land also will be left by them, and will enjoy its sabbaths while it lies desolate without them: and they will accept the punishment of their iniquity; cuz, even cuz they rejected my ordinances, and their soul abhorred my statutes.
 44. Yet for all that, when they are in the land of their enemies, I won't reject them, neither will I abhor them, to tear down them utterly, and to break my God's promise with them; for I am Yahweh their God;
 45. but I will for their sake remember the God's promise of their ancestors, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God. I am Yahweh.’”
 46. These are the statutes, ordinances and laws, which Yahweh made between him and the children of Israel in Mount Sinai by Moses.
