# Leviticus Chapter 9

  1. It happened on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel;
  2. and he said to Aaron, “grab a calf from the herd for a messing up giving to God, and a ram for a burnt giving to God, without blemish, and offer them before Yahweh.
  3. You shall spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘grab a male goat for a messing up giving to God; and a calf and a lamb, both a year old, without blemish, for a burnt giving to God;
  4. and a bull and a ram for peace offerings, to giving it up before Yahweh; and a meal giving to God mixed with oil: for today Yahweh appears to you.’”
  5. They brought what Moses commanded before the Tent of Meeting: and all the congregation drew near and stood before Yahweh.
  6. Moses said, “This is the thing which Yahweh commanded that you should do: and the glory of Yahweh shall appear to you.”
  7. Moses said to Aaron, “Draw near to the prayer spot, and offer your messing up giving to God, and your burnt giving to God, and create atonement for yourself, and for the people; and offer the giving to God of the people, and create atonement for them; as Yahweh commanded.”
  8. So Aaron drew near to the prayer spot, and killed the calf of the messing up giving to God, which was for himself.
  9. The sons of Aaron presented the blood to him; and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it on the horns of the prayer spot, and poured out the blood at the base of the prayer spot:
 10. but the fat, and the kidneys, and the cover from the liver of the messing up giving to God, he burned upon the prayer spot; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
 11. The flesh and the skin he burned with fire outside the camp.
 12. He killed the burnt giving to God; and Aaron’s sons delivered the blood to him, and he sprinkled it around on the prayer spot.
 13. They delivered the burnt giving to God to him, piece by piece, and the head: and he burned them upon the prayer spot.
 14. He washed the innards and the legs, and burned them on the burnt giving to God on the prayer spot.
 15. He presented the people’s giving to God, and took the goat of the messing up giving to God which was for the people, and killed it, and offered it for messing up, like the first.
 16. He presented the burnt giving to God, and offered it according to the ordinance.
 17. He presented the meal giving to God, and filled his hand from there, and burned it upon the prayer spot, besides the burnt giving to God of the morning.
 18. He also killed the bull and the ram, the giving it up of peace offerings, which was for the people: and Aaron’s sons delivered to him the blood, which he sprinkled around on the prayer spot,
 19. and the fat of the bull and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covers the innards, and the kidneys, and the cover of the liver:
 20. and they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burned the fat on the prayer spot:
 21. and the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave giving to God before Yahweh, as Moses commanded.
 22. Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed up them; and he came down from giving to God the messing up giving to God, and the burnt giving to God, and the peace offerings.
 23. Moses and Aaron went into the Tent of Meeting, and came out, and blessed up the people: and the glory of Yahweh appeared to all the people.
 24. there came forth fire from before Yahweh, and consumed the burnt giving to God and the fat upon the prayer spot: and when all the people checked out it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.
