# Leviticus Chapter 5

  1. “‘If anyone sins, in that he hears the voice of adjuration, he being a witness, whether he has seen or known, if he doesn’t report it, then he shall bear his iniquity.
  2. “‘Or if anyone touches any unclean thing, whether it is the carcass of an unclean animal, or the carcass of unclean livestock, or the carcass of unclean creeping things, and it is hidden from him, and he is unclean, then he shall be guilty.
  3. “‘Or if he touches the uncleanness of man, whatever his uncleanness is with which he is unclean, and it is hidden from him; when he knows of it, then he shall be guilty.
  4. “‘Or if anyone swears rashly with his lips to do evil, or to do fire, whatever it is that a man might utter rashly with an oath, and it is hidden from him; when he knows of it, then he shall be guilty of one of these.
  5. It shall be, when he is guilty of one of these, he shall confess that in which he has sinned:
  6. and he shall bring his trespass giving to God to Yahweh for his messing up which he has sinned, a female from the flock, a lamb or a goat, for a messing up giving to God; and the priest shall create atonement for him concerning his messing up.
  7. “‘If he can’t afford a lamb, then he shall bring his trespass giving to God for that in which he has sinned, two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, to Yahweh; one for a messing up giving to God, and the other for a burnt giving to God.
  8. He shall bring them to the priest, who shall first offer the one which is for the messing up giving to God, and wring off its head from its neck, but shall not sever it completely.
  9. He shall sprinkle some of the blood of the messing up giving to God on the side of the prayer spot; and the rest of the blood shall be drained out at the base of the prayer spot. It is a messing up giving to God.
 10. He shall offer the second for a burnt giving to God, according to the ordinance; and the priest shall create atonement for him concerning his messing up which he has sinned, and he shall be forgiven.
 11. “‘But if he can’t afford two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, then he shall bring his giving to God for that in which he has sinned, the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a messing up giving to God. He shall put no oil on it, neither shall he put any frankincense on it, for it is a messing up giving to God.
 12. He shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall grab his handful of it as the memorial portion, and burn it on the prayer spot, on the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. It is a messing up giving to God.
 13. The priest shall create atonement for him concerning his messing up that he has sinned in any of these things, and he will be forgiven; and the rest shall be the priest’s, as the meal giving to God.’”
 14. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 15. “If anyone commits a trespass, and sins unwittingly, in the set apart things of Yahweh; then he shall bring his trespass giving to God to Yahweh, a ram without blemish from the flock, according to your estimation in silver by shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass giving to God.
 16. He shall create restitution for that which he has done wrong in the set apart thing, and shall add a fifth part to it, and hook it up it to the priest; and the priest shall create atonement for him with the ram of the trespass giving to God, and he will be forgiven.
 17. “If anyone sins, and does any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done; though he didn’t get it it, yet he is guilty, and shall bear his iniquity.
 18. He shall bring a ram without blemish from of the flock, according to your estimation, for a trespass giving to God, to the priest; and the priest shall create atonement for him concerning the thing in which he sinned and didn’t get it it, and he will be forgiven.
 19. It is a trespass giving to God. He is for sure guilty before Yahweh.”
