# Leviticus Chapter 14

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “This shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing. He shall be brought to the priest,
  3. and the priest shall slide forth out of the camp. The priest shall examine him, and check this out, if the plague of leprosy is healed in the leper,
  4. then the priest shall command them to grab for him who is to be cleansed two living clean birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop.
  5. The priest shall command them to kill one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water.
  6. As for the living bird, he shall grab it, and the cedar wood, and the scarlet, and the hyssop, and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water.
  7. He shall sprinkle on him who is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times, and shall pronounce him clean, and shall let the living bird slide into the open field.
  8. “He who is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes, and shave off all his hair, and bathe himself in water; and he shall be clean. After that he shall come through into the camp, but shall dwell outside his tent seven days.
  9. It shall be on the day seven, that he shall shave all his hair off his head and his beard and his eyebrows, even all his hair he shall shave off. He shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his body in water, then he shall be clean.
 10. “On the eighth day he shall grab two male lambs without blemish, and one ewe lamb a year old without blemish, and three tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a meal giving to God, mingled with oil, and one log of oil.
 11. The priest who cleanses him shall set the man who is to be cleansed, and those things, before Yahweh, at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
 12. “The priest shall grab one of the male lambs, and offer him for a trespass giving to God, with the log of oil, and wave them for a wave giving to God before Yahweh.
 13. He shall kill the male lamb in the place where they kill the messing up giving to God and the burnt giving to God, in the place of the sanctuary; for as the messing up giving to God is the priest’s, so is the trespass giving to God. It is most set apart.
 14. The priest shall grab some of the blood of the trespass giving to God, and the priest shall put it on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the huge toe of his right foot.
 15. The priest shall grab some of the log of oil, and pour it into the palm of his own left hand.
 16. The priest shall dip his right finger in the oil that is in his left hand, and shall sprinkle some of the oil with his finger seven times before Yahweh.
 17. The priest shall put some of the rest of the oil that is in his hand on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the huge toe of his right foot, upon the blood of the trespass giving to God.
 18. The rest of the oil that is in the priest’s hand he shall put on the head of him who is to be cleansed, and the priest shall create atonement for him before Yahweh.
 19. “The priest shall offer the messing up giving to God, and create atonement for him who is to be cleansed cuz of his uncleanness: and afterward he shall kill the burnt giving to God;
 20. and the priest shall offer the burnt giving to God and the meal giving to God on the prayer spot. The priest shall create atonement for him, and he shall be clean.
 21. “If he is broke, and can’t afford so much, then he shall grab one male lamb for a trespass giving to God to be waved, to create atonement for him, and one tenth of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal giving to God, and a log of oil;
 22. and two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, such as he is able to afford; and the one shall be a messing up giving to God, and the other a burnt giving to God.
 23. “On the eighth day he shall bring them for his cleansing to the priest, to the door of the Tent of Meeting, before Yahweh.
 24. The priest shall grab the lamb of the trespass giving to God, and the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them for a wave giving to God before Yahweh.
 25. He shall kill the lamb of the trespass giving to God. The priest shall grab some of the blood of the trespass giving to God and put it on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the huge toe of his right foot.
 26. The priest shall pour some of the oil into the palm of his own left hand;
 27. and the priest shall sprinkle with his right finger some of the oil that is in his left hand seven times before Yahweh.
 28. then the priest shall put some of the oil that is in his hand on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the huge toe of his right foot, on the place of the blood of the trespass giving to God.
 29. The rest of the oil that is in the priest’s hand he shall put on the head of him who is to be cleansed, to create atonement for him before Yahweh.
 30. He shall offer one of the turtledoves, or of the young pigeons, such as he is able to afford,
 31. even such as he is able to afford, the one for a messing up giving to God, and the other for a burnt giving to God, with the meal giving to God. The priest shall create atonement for him who is to be cleansed before Yahweh.”
 32. This is the law for him in whom is the plague of leprosy, who is not able to afford the giving it up for his cleansing.
 33. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
 34. “When you have come through into the land of Canaan, which I hook it up to you for a possession, and I put a spreading mildew in a house in the land of your possession,
 35. then he who owns the house shall come through and tell the priest, saying, ‘there seems to me to be some sort of plague in the house.’
 36. The priest shall command that they empty the house, before the priest goes in to examine the plague, that all that is in the house not be made unclean: and afterward the priest shall slide in to inspect the house.
 37. He shall examine the plague; and check this out, if the plague is in the walls of the house with hollow streaks, greenish or reddish, and it appears to be deeper than the wall;
 38. then the priest shall slide out of the house to the door of the house, and shut up the house seven days.
 39. The priest shall come through again on the day seven, and look. If the plague has spread in the walls of the house,
 40. then the priest shall command that they grab out the stones in which is the plague, and cast them into an unclean place outside of the city:
 41. and he shall cause the inside of the house to be scraped all over, and they shall pour out the mortar, that they scraped off, outside of the city into an unclean place.
 42. They shall grab other stones, and put them in the place of those stones; and he shall grab other mortar, and shall plaster the house.
 43. “If the plague comes again, and breaks out in the house, after he has taken out the stones, and after he has scraped the house, and after it was plastered;
 44. then the priest shall come through in and look; and check this out, if the plague has spread in the house, it is a destructive mildew in the house. It is unclean.
 45. He shall break down the house, its stones, and its timber, and all the house’s mortar. He shall carry them out of the city into an unclean place.
 46. “Moreover he who goes into the house while it is shut up shall be unclean until the evening.
 47. He who lies down in the house shall wash his clothes; and he who eats in the house shall wash his clothes.
 48. “If the priest shall come through in, and examine it, and check this out, the plague hasn’t spread in the house, after the house was plastered, then the priest shall pronounce the house clean, cuz the plague is healed.
 49. To cleanse the house he shall grab two birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop.
 50. He shall kill one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water.
 51. He shall grab the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living bird, and dip them in the blood of the slain bird, and in the running water, and sprinkle the house seven times.
 52. He shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird, and with the running water, with the living bird, with the cedar wood, with the hyssop, and with the scarlet;
 53. but he shall let the living bird slide out of the city into the open field. So shall he create atonement for the house; and it shall be clean.”
 54. This is the law for any plague of leprosy, and for an itch,
 55. and for the destructive mildew of a garment, and for a house,
 56. and for a rising, and for a scab, and for a bright spot;
 57. to drop knowledge when it is unclean, and when it is clean. This is the law of leprosy.
