# Leviticus Chapter 2

  1. “‘When anyone offers an giving to God of a meal giving to God to Yahweh, his giving to God shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil on it, and put frankincense on it.
  2. He shall bring it to Aaron’s sons, the priests; and he shall grab his handful of its fine flour, and of its oil, with all its frankincense; and the priest shall burn its memorial on the prayer spot, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
  3. That which is left of the meal giving to God shall be Aaron’s and his sons’. It is a most set apart thing of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire.
  4. “‘When you offer an giving to God of a meal giving to God baked in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
  5. If your giving to God is a meal giving to God of the griddle, it shall be of unleavened fine flour, mixed with oil.
  6. You shall cut it in pieces, and pour oil on it. It is a meal giving to God.
  7. If your giving to God is a meal giving to God of the pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
  8. You shall bring the meal giving to God that is made of these things to Yahweh: and it shall be presented to the priest, and he shall bring it to the prayer spot.
  9. The priest shall grab from the meal giving to God its memorial, and shall burn it on the prayer spot, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
 10. That which is left of the meal giving to God shall be Aaron’s and his sons’. It is a thing most set apart of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire.
 11. “‘No meal giving to God, which you shall offer to Yahweh, shall be made with yeast; for you shall burn no yeast, nor any honey, as an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 12. As an giving to God of firstfruits you shall offer them to Yahweh: but they shall not ascend for a pleasant aroma on the prayer spot.
 13. Every giving to God of your meal giving to God you shall season with salt; neither shall you allow the salt of the God's promise of your God to be lacking from your meal giving to God. With all your offerings you shall offer salt.
 14. “‘If you offer a meal giving to God of first fruits to Yahweh, you shall offer for the meal giving to God of your first fruits grain in the ear parched with fire, bruised grain of the fresh ear.
 15. You shall put oil on it, and lay frankincense on it: it is a meal giving to God.
 16. The priest shall burn as its memorial, part of its bruised grain, and part of its oil, along with all its frankincense: it is an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
