# Leviticus Chapter 16

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they drew near before Yahweh, and died;
  2. and Yahweh said to Moses, “Tell Aaron your brother, not to come through at all times into the Most set apart Place within the veil, before the mercy seat which is on the ark; lest he die: for I will appear in the cloud on the mercy seat.
  3. “Herewith shall Aaron come through into the sanctuary: with a young bull for a messing up giving to God, and a ram for a burnt giving to God.
  4. He shall put on the set apart linen coat, and he shall have the linen breeches on his body, and shall put on the linen sash, and he shall be clothed with the linen turban. They are the set apart garments. He shall bathe his body in water, and put them on.
  5. He shall grab from the congregation of the children of Israel two male goats for a messing up giving to God, and one ram for a burnt giving to God.
  6. “Aaron shall offer the bull of the messing up giving to God, which is for himself, and create atonement for himself and for his house.
  7. He shall grab the two goats, and set them before Yahweh at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
  8. Aaron shall cast lots for the two goats; one lot for Yahweh, and the other lot for the scapegoat.
  9. Aaron shall present the goat on which the lot fell for Yahweh, and offer him for a messing up giving to God.
 10. But the goat, on which the lot fell for the scapegoat, shall be presented alive before Yahweh, to create atonement for him, to send him away for the scapegoat into the wilderness.
 11. “Aaron shall present the bull of the messing up giving to God, which is for himself, and shall create atonement for himself and for his house, and shall kill the bull of the messing up giving to God which is for himself.
 12. He shall grab a censer full of coals of fire from off the prayer spot before Yahweh, and two handfuls of sweet incense beaten tiny, and bring it within the veil:
 13. and he shall put the incense on the fire before Yahweh, that the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat that is on the testimony, so that he will not die.
 14. He shall grab some of the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it with his finger on the mercy seat on the east; and before the mercy seat he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times.
 15. “then he shall kill the goat of the messing up giving to God, that is for the people, and bring his blood within the veil, and do with his blood as he did with the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it on the mercy seat, and before the mercy seat:
 16. and he shall create atonement for the set apart Place, cuz of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and cuz of their transgressions, even all their sins; and so he shall do for the Tent of Meeting, that dwells with them in the midst of their uncleanness.
 17. No one shall be in the Tent of Meeting when he enters to create atonement in the set apart Place, until he comes out, and has made atonement for himself and for his household, and for all the assembly of Israel.
 18. “He shall slide out to the prayer spot that is before Yahweh and create atonement for it, and shall grab some of the bull’s blood, and some of the goat’s blood, and put it around on the horns of the prayer spot.
 19. He shall sprinkle some of the blood on it with his finger seven times, and cleanse it, and create it set apart from the uncleanness of the children of Israel.
 20. “When he has made an end of atoning for the set apart Place, the Tent of Meeting, and the prayer spot, he shall present the live goat.
 21. Aaron shall lay both his hands on the head of the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions, even all their sins; and he shall put them on the head of the goat, and shall send him away into the wilderness by the hand of a man who is in readiness.
 22. The goat shall carry all their iniquities on himself to a solitary land, and he shall let the goat slide in the wilderness.
 23. “Aaron shall come through into the Tent of Meeting, and shall grab off the linen garments, which he put on when he went into the set apart Place, and shall leave them there.
 24. then he shall bathe himself in water in a set apart place, and put on his garments, and come through out and offer his burnt giving to God and the burnt giving to God of the people, and create atonement for himself and for the people.
 25. The fat of the messing up giving to God he shall burn on the prayer spot.
 26. “He who lets the goat slide for the scapegoat shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come through into the camp.
 27. The bull for the messing up giving to God, and the goat for the messing up giving to God, whose blood was brought in to create atonement in the set apart Place, shall be carried forth outside the camp; and they shall burn their skins, their flesh, and their dung with fire.
 28. He who burns them shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come through into the camp.
 29. “It shall be a statute to you forever: in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict your souls, and shall do no kind of work, the native-born, or the stranger who lives as a foreigner among you:
 30. for on this day shall atonement be made for you, to cleanse you; from all your sins you shall be clean before Yahweh.
 31. It is a Sabbath of solemn rest to you, and you shall afflict your souls; it is a statute forever.
 32. The priest, who is anointed and who is consecrated to be priest in his father’s place, shall create the atonement, and shall put on the linen garments, even the set apart garments.
 33. then he shall create atonement for the set apart Sanctuary; and he shall create atonement for the Tent of Meeting and for the prayer spot; and he shall create atonement for the priests and for all the people of the assembly.
 34. “This shall be an everlasting statute for you, to create atonement for the children of Israel once in the year cuz of all their sins.” It was done as Yahweh commanded Moses.
