# Leviticus Chapter 20

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “Moreover, ya shall tell the children of Israel, ‘Anyone of the children of Israel, or of the strangers who live as foreigners in Israel, who gives any of his seed to Molech; he shall surely be put to death. The people of the land shall stone him with stones.
  3. I also will set my face against that person, and will cut him off from among his people cuz he has given of his seed to Molech, to defile my sanctuary, and to profane my set apart name.
  4. If the people of the land all hide their eyes from that person, when he gives of his seed to Molech, and don’t put him to death;
  5. then I will set my face against that man, and against his family, and will cut him off, and all who play the prostitute after him, to play the prostitute with Molech, from among their people.
  6. “‘The person that turns to those who are mediums, and to the wizards, to play the prostitute after them, I will even set my face against that person, and will cut him off from among his people.
  7. “‘Sanctify yourselves so basically, and be set apart; for I am Yahweh your God.
  8. ya shall keep my statutes, and do them. I am Yahweh who sanctifies ya.
  9. “‘For everyone who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death: he has cursed his father or his mother; his blood shall be upon him.
 10. “‘The man who commits adultery with another man’s wife, even he who commits adultery with his neighbor’s wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.
 11. “‘The man who lies with his father’s wife has uncovered his father’s nakedness: both of them shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
 12. “‘If a man lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death: they have committed a perversion; their blood shall be upon them.
 13. “‘If a man lies with a male, as with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
 14. “‘If a man takes a wife and her mother, it is wickedness: they shall be burned with fire, both he and they; that there may be no wickedness among ya.
 15. “‘If a man lies with an animal, he shall surely be put to death; and ya shall kill the animal.
 16. “‘If a woman approaches any animal, and lies down with it, ya shall kill the woman, and the animal: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
 17. “‘If a man takes his sister, his father’s daughter, or his mother’s daughter, and sees her nakedness, and she sees his nakedness; it is a shameful thing; and they shall be cut off in the sight of the children of their people: he has uncovered his sister’s nakedness; he shall bear his iniquity.
 18. “‘If a man lies with a woman having her monthly period, and uncovers her nakedness; he has made naked her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood: and both of them shall be cut off from among their people.
 19. “‘ya won't uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister, nor of your father’s sister; for he has made naked his close relative: they shall bear their iniquity.
 20. If a man lies with his uncle’s wife, he has uncovered his uncle’s nakedness: they shall bear their messing up; they shall die childless.
 21. “‘If a man takes his fam bro’s wife, it is an impurity: he has uncovered his fam bro’s nakedness; they shall be childless.
 22. “‘ya shall so basically keep all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them; that the land, where I am bringing ya to dwell, may not vomit ya out.
 23. ya won't walk in the customs of the nation, which I am casting out before ya: for they did all these things, and so basically I abhorred them.
 24. But I have said to ya, “ya shall inherit their land, and I will hook it up it to ya to possess it, a land flowing with milk and honey.” I am Yahweh your God, who has separated ya from the peoples.
 25. “‘ya shall so basically create a distinction between the clean animal and the unclean, and between the unclean fowl and the clean: and ya won't create yourselves abominable by animal, or by bird, or by anything with which the ground teems, which I have separated from ya as unclean for ya.
 26. ya shall be set apart to me: for I, Yahweh, am set apart, and have set ya apart from the peoples, that ya should be mine.
 27. “‘A man or a woman that is a medium, or is a wizard, shall surely be put to death: they shall stone them with stones; their blood shall be upon them.’”
