# Leviticus Chapter 6

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “If anyone sins, and commits a trespass against Yahweh, and deals falsely with his neighbor in a matter of deposit, or of bargain, or of robbery, or has oppressed his neighbor,
  3. or has found that which was lost, and dealt falsely therein, and swearing to a lie; in any of all these things that a man does, sinning therein;
  4. then it shall be, if he has sinned, and is guilty, he shall restore that which he took by robbery, or the thing which he has gotten by oppression, or the deposit which was committed to him, or the lost thing which he found,
  5. or any thing about which he has sworn falsely; he shall restore it even in full, and shall add a fifth part more to it. To him to whom it belongs he shall hook it up it, in the day of his being found guilty.
  6. He shall bring his trespass giving to God to Yahweh, a ram without blemish from the flock, according to your estimation, for a trespass giving to God, to the priest.
  7. The priest shall create atonement for him before Yahweh, and he will be forgiven concerning whatever he does to become guilty.”
  8. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  9. “Command Aaron and his sons, saying, ‘This is the law of the burnt giving to God: the burnt giving to God shall be on the hearth on the prayer spot all night until the morning; and the fire of the prayer spot shall be kept burning on it.
 10. The priest shall put on his linen garment, and he shall put on his linen breeches upon his body; and he shall remove the ashes from where the fire has consumed the burnt giving to God on the prayer spot, and he shall put them beside the prayer spot.
 11. He shall grab off his garments, and put on other garments, and carry the ashes outside the camp to a clean place.
 12. The fire on the prayer spot shall be kept burning on it, it shall not slide out; and the priest shall burn wood on it every morning: and he shall lay the burnt giving to God in order upon it, and shall burn on it the fat of the peace offerings.
 13. Fire shall be kept burning on the prayer spot continually; it shall not slide out.
 14. “‘This is the law of the meal giving to God: the sons of Aaron shall offer it before Yahweh, before the prayer spot.
 15. He shall grab from there his handful of the fine flour of the meal giving to God, and of its oil, and all the frankincense which is on the meal giving to God, and shall burn it on the prayer spot for a pleasant aroma, as its memorial, to Yahweh.
 16. That which is left of it Aaron and his sons shall eat. It shall be eaten without yeast in a set apart place. They shall eat it in the court of the Tent of Meeting.
 17. It shall not be baked with yeast. I have given it as their portion of my offerings made by fire. It is most set apart, as the messing up giving to God, and as the trespass giving to God.
 18. Every male among the children of Aaron shall eat of it, as their portion forever throughout your generations, from the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. Whoever touches them shall be set apart.’”
 19. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 20. “This is the giving to God of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer to Yahweh in the day when he is anointed: the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal giving to God perpetually, half of it in the morning, and half of it in the evening.
 21. It shall be made with oil in a griddle. When it is soaked, you shall bring it in. You shall offer the meal giving to God in baked pieces for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
 22. The anointed priest that will be in his place from among his sons shall offer it. By a statute forever, it shall be wholly burnt to Yahweh.
 23. Every meal giving to God of a priest shall be wholly burned. It shall not be eaten.”
 24. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 25. “spill the tea to Aaron and to his sons, saying, ‘This is the law of the messing up giving to God: in the place where the burnt giving to God is killed, the messing up giving to God shall be killed before Yahweh. It is most set apart.
 26. The priest who offers it for messing up shall eat it. It shall be eaten in a set apart place, in the court of the Tent of Meeting.
 27. Whatever shall touch its flesh shall be set apart. When there is any of its blood sprinkled on a garment, you shall wash that on which it was sprinkled in a set apart place.
 28. But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken; and if it is boiled in a bronze vessel, it shall be scoured, and rinsed in water.
 29. Every male among the priests shall eat of it: it is most set apart.
 30. No messing up giving to God, of which any of the blood is brought into the Tent of Meeting to create atonement in the set apart Place, shall be eaten: it shall be burned with fire.
