# Leviticus Chapter 19

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to all the congregation of the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘ya shall be set apart; for I Yahweh your God am set apart.
  3. “‘Each one of ya shall respect his mother and his father. ya shall keep my Sabbaths. I am Yahweh your God.
  4. “‘Don’t turn to idols, nor create molten gods for yourselves. I am Yahweh your God.
  5. “‘When ya offer a giving it up of peace offerings to Yahweh, ya shall offer it so that ya may be accepted.
  6. It shall be eaten the same day ya offer it, and on the next day: and if anything remains until the third day, it shall be burned with fire.
  7. If it is eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination. It won't be accepted;
  8. but everyone who eats it shall bear his iniquity, cuz he has profaned the set apart thing of Yahweh, and that soul shall be cut off from his people.
  9. “‘When ya reap the harvest of your land, ya won't wholly reap the corners of your field, neither shall ya gather the gleanings of your harvest.
 10. ya won't glean your vineyard, neither shall ya gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard; ya shall leave them for the broke and for the foreigner. I am Yahweh your God.
 11. “‘ya won't steal. “‘ya won't lie. “‘ya won't deceive one another.
 12. “‘ya won't swear by my name falsely, and profane the name of your God. I am Yahweh.
 13. “‘ya won't oppress your neighbor, nor rob him. “‘The wages of a hired helper won't remain with ya all night until the morning.
 14. “‘ya won't curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling block before the blind; but ya shall fear your God. I am Yahweh.
 15. “‘ya shall do no injustice in judgment: ya won't be partial to the broke, nor show favoritism to the major; but ya shall judge your neighbor in righteousness.
 16. “‘ya won't slide up and down as a slanderer among your people. “‘ya won't endanger the life of your neighbor. I am Yahweh.
 17. “‘ya won't can't stand your fam bro in your heart. ya shall surely rebuke your neighbor, and not bear messing up cuz of him.
 18. “‘ya won't grab vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people; but ya shall show love your neighbor as yourself. I am Yahweh.
 19. “‘ya shall keep my statutes. “‘ya won't crossbreed different kinds of animals. “‘ya won't sow your field with two kinds of seed; “‘neither shall there come through upon on ya a garment made of two kinds of material.
 20. “‘If a man lies carnally with a woman who is a helper girl, pledged to be married to another man, and not ransomed, or given her freedom; they shall be punished. They won't be put to death, cuz she was not free.
 21. He shall bring his trespass giving to God to Yahweh, to the door of the Tent of Meeting, even a ram for a trespass giving to God.
 22. The priest shall create atonement for him with the ram of the trespass giving to God before Yahweh for his messing up which he has committed: and the messing up which he has committed shall be forgiven him.
 23. “‘When ya come through into the land, and have planted all kinds of trees for food, then ya shall count their fruit as forbidden. Three years shall they be forbidden to ya. It won't be eaten.
 24. But in the fourth year all its fruit shall be set apart, for giving praise to Yahweh.
 25. In the fifth year ya shall eat its fruit, that it may yield its increase to ya. I am Yahweh your God.
 26. “‘ya won't eat any meat with the blood still in it; neither shall ya use enchantments, nor practice sorcery.
 27. “‘ya won't cut the hair on the sides of your heads, neither shall ya clip off the edge of your beard.
 28. “‘ya won't create any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor tattoo any marks on ya. I am Yahweh.
 29. “‘Don’t profane your daughter, to create her a prostitute; lest the land fall to prostitution, and the land become full of wickedness.
 30. “‘ya shall keep my Sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary; I am Yahweh.
 31. “‘Don’t turn to those who are mediums, nor to the wizards. Don’t seek them out, to be defiled by them. I am Yahweh your God.
 32. “‘ya shall rise up before the gray head, and honor the face of an old man, and ya shall fear your God. I am Yahweh.
 33. “‘If a stranger lives as a foreigner with ya in your land, ya won't do him wrong.
 34. The stranger who lives as a foreigner with ya shall be to ya as the native-born among ya, and ya shall show love him as yourself; for ya lived as foreigners in the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.
 35. “‘ya shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity.
 36. ya shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin. I am Yahweh your God, who brought ya out of the land of Egypt.
 37. “‘ya shall observe all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them. I am Yahweh.’”
