# Leviticus Chapter 23

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘The set feasts of Yahweh, which you shall proclaim to be set apart convocations, even these are my set feasts.
  3. “‘Six days shall work be done: but on the day seven is a Sabbath of solemn rest, a set apart convocation; you shall do no kind of work. It is a Sabbath to Yahweh in all your dwellings.
  4. “‘These are the set feasts of Yahweh, even set apart convocations, which you shall proclaim in their appointed season.
  5. In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening, is Yahweh’s Passover.
  6. On the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread to Yahweh. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread.
  7. In the day one you shall have a set apart convocation. You shall do no regular work.
  8. But you shall offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh seven days. In the day seven is a set apart convocation: you shall do no regular work.’”
  9. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 10. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When you have come through into the land which I hook it up to you, and shall reap its the harvest, then you shall bring the sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest to the priest:
 11. and he shall wave the sheaf before Yahweh, to be accepted for you. On the next day after the Sabbath the priest shall wave it.
 12. On the day when you wave the sheaf, you shall offer a male lamb without blemish a year old for a burnt giving to God to Yahweh.
 13. The meal giving to God with it shall be two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh for a pleasant aroma; and the drink giving to God with it shall be of wine, the fourth part of a hin.
 14. You shall eat neither bread, nor roasted grain, nor fresh grain, until this same day, until you have brought the giving to God of your God. This is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
 15. “‘You shall count from the next day after the Sabbath, from the day that you brought the sheaf of the wave giving to God; seven Sabbaths shall be completed:
 16. even to the next day after the seventh Sabbath you shall number fifty days; and you shall offer a new meal giving to God to Yahweh.
 17. You shall bring out of your habitations two loaves of bread for a wave giving to God made of two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour. They shall be baked with yeast, for first fruits to Yahweh.
 18. You shall present with the bread seven lambs without blemish a year old, one young bull, and two rams. They shall be a burnt giving to God to Yahweh, with their meal giving to God, and their drink offerings, even an giving to God made by fire, of a sweet aroma to Yahweh.
 19. You shall offer one male goat for a messing up giving to God, and two male lambs a year old for a giving it up of peace offerings.
 20. The priest shall wave them with the bread of the first fruits for a wave giving to God before Yahweh, with the two lambs. They shall be set apart to Yahweh for the priest.
 21. You shall create proclamation on the same day: there shall be a set apart convocation to you; you shall do no regular work. This is a statute forever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.
 22. “‘When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap into the corners of your field, neither shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest: you shall leave them for the broke, and for the foreigner. I am Yahweh your God.’”
 23. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 24. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘In the seventh month, on the day one of the month, shall be a solemn rest to you, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a set apart convocation.
 25. You shall do no regular work; and you shall offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.’”
 26. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 27. “but like on the tenth day of this seventh month is the day of atonement: it shall be a set apart convocation to you, and you shall afflict yourselves; and you shall offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 28. You shall do no kind of work in that same day; for it is a day of atonement, to create atonement for you before Yahweh your God.
 29. For whoever it is who shall not deny himself in that same day; shall be cut off from his people.
 30. Whoever it is who does any kind of work in that same day, that person I will tear down from among his people.
 31. You shall do no kind of work: it is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
 32. It shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for you, and you shall deny yourselves. In the ninth day of the month at evening, from evening to evening, you shall keep your Sabbath.”
 33. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 34. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and say, ‘On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the feast of tents for seven days to Yahweh.
 35. On the day one shall be a set apart convocation: you shall do no regular work.
 36. Seven days you shall offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh. On the eighth day shall be a set apart convocation to you; and you shall offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh. It is a solemn assembly; you shall do no regular work.
 37. “‘These are the appointed feasts of Yahweh, which you shall proclaim to be set apart convocations, to offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh, a burnt giving to God, and a meal giving to God, a giving it up, and drink offerings, each on its own day;
 38. besides the Sabbaths of Yahweh, and besides your gifts, and besides all your vows, and besides all your freewill offerings, which you hook it up to Yahweh.
 39. “‘So on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the fruits of the land, you shall keep the feast of Yahweh seven days: on the day one shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest.
 40. You shall grab on the day one the fruit of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and you shall be hyped before Yahweh your God seven days.
 41. You shall keep it a feast to Yahweh seven days in the year: it is a statute forever throughout your generations; you shall keep it in the seventh month.
 42. You shall dwell in booths seven days. All who are native-born in Israel shall dwell in booths,
 43. that your generations may get it that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.’”
 44. Moses declared to the children of Israel the appointed feasts of Yahweh.
