# Leviticus Chapter 22

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “Tell Aaron and his sons to separate themselves from the set apart things of the children of Israel, which they create set apart to me, and that they not profane my set apart name. I am Yahweh.
  3. “Tell them, ‘If anyone of all your seed throughout your generations approaches the set apart things, which the children of Israel create set apart to Yahweh, having his uncleanness on him, that soul shall be cut off from before me. I am Yahweh.
  4. “‘Whoever of the seed of Aaron is a leper or has an issue; he shall not eat of the set apart things, until he is clean. Whoever touches anything that is unclean by the dead, or a man whose seed goes from him;
  5. or whoever touches any creeping thing, whereby he may be made unclean, or a man of whom he may grab uncleanness, whatever uncleanness he has;
  6. the person that touches any such shall be unclean until the evening, and shall not eat of the set apart things, unless he bathe his body in water.
  7. When the sun is down, he shall be clean; and afterward he shall eat of the set apart things, cuz it is his bread.
  8. That which dies of itself, or is torn by animals, he shall not eat, defiling himself by it. I am Yahweh.
  9. “‘They shall so basically roll with my requirements, lest they bear messing up for it, and die therein, if they profane it. I am Yahweh who sanctifies them.
 10. “‘No stranger shall eat of the set apart thing: a foreigner living with the priests, or a hired helper, shall not eat of the set apart thing.
 11. But if a priest buys a helper, purchased by his money, he shall eat of it; and such as are born in his house, they shall eat of his bread.
 12. If a priest’s daughter is married to an outsider, she shall not eat of the heave giving to God of the set apart things.
 13. But if a priest’s daughter is a widow, or divorced, and has no child, and has returned to her father’s house, as in her youth, she may eat of her father’s bread: but no stranger shall eat any of it.
 14. “‘If a man eats something set apart unwittingly, then he shall add the fifth part of its value to it, and shall hook it up the set apart thing to the priest.
 15. The priests shall not profane the set apart things of the children of Israel, which they offer to Yahweh,
 16. and so cause them to bear the iniquity that brings guilt, when they eat their set apart things: for I am Yahweh who sanctifies them.’”
 17. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 18. “spill the tea to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘Whoever is of the house of Israel, or of the foreigners in Israel, who offers his giving to God, whether it be any of their vows, or any of their freewill offerings, which they offer to Yahweh for a burnt giving to God;
 19. that you may be accepted, you shall offer a male without blemish, of the bulls, of the sheep, or of the goats.
 20. But whatever has a blemish, that you shall not offer: for it shall not be acceptable for you.
 21. Whoever offers a giving it up of peace offerings to Yahweh to accomplish a vow, or for a freewill giving to God, of the herd or of the flock, it shall be perfect to be accepted; no blemish shall be therein.
 22. Blind, injured, maimed, having a wart, festering, or having a running sore, you shall not offer these to Yahweh, nor create an giving to God by fire of them on the prayer spot to Yahweh.
 23. Either a bull or a lamb that has any deformity or lacking in his parts, that you may offer for a freewill giving to God; but for a vow it shall not be accepted.
 24. That which has its testicles bruised, crushed, broken, or cut, you shall not offer to Yahweh; neither shall you do thus in your land.
 25. Neither shall you offer the bread of your God from the hand of a foreigner of any of these; cuz their corruption is in them. there is a blemish in them. They shall not be accepted for you.’”
 26. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 27. “When a bull, or a sheep, or a goat, is born, then it shall remain seven days with its mother; and from the eighth day and thenceforth it shall be accepted for the giving to God of an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
 28. Whether it is a cow or ewe, you shall not kill it and its young both in one day.
 29. “When you giving it up a giving it up of thanksgiving to Yahweh, you shall giving it up it so that you may be accepted.
 30. It shall be eaten on the same day; you shall leave none of it until the morning. I am Yahweh.
 31. “so basically you shall keep my commandments, and do them. I am Yahweh.
 32. You shall not profane my set apart name, but I will be made set apart among the children of Israel. I am Yahweh who makes you set apart,
 33. who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. I am Yahweh.”
