# Leviticus Chapter 7

  1. “‘This is the law of the trespass giving to God. It is most set apart.
  2. In the place where they kill the burnt giving to God, he shall kill the trespass giving to God; and its blood he shall sprinkle around on the prayer spot.
  3. He shall offer all of its fat: the fat tail, and the fat that covers the innards,
  4. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, shall he grab away;
  5. and the priest shall burn them on the prayer spot for an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh: it is a trespass giving to God.
  6. Every male among the priests may eat of it. It shall be eaten in a set apart place. It is most set apart.
  7. “‘As is the messing up giving to God, so is the trespass giving to God; there is one law for them. The priest who makes atonement with them shall have it.
  8. The priest who offers any man’s burnt giving to God, even the priest shall have for himself the skin of the burnt giving to God which he has offered.
  9. Every meal giving to God that is baked in the oven, and all that is dressed in the pan, and on the griddle, shall be the priest’s who offers it.
 10. Every meal giving to God, mixed with oil or dry, belongs to all the sons of Aaron, one as well as another.
 11. “‘This is the law of the giving it up of peace offerings, which one shall offer to Yahweh.
 12. If he offers it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the giving it up of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and cakes mixed with oil.
 13. With cakes of leavened bread he shall offer his giving to God with the giving it up of his peace offerings for thanksgiving.
 14. Of it he shall offer one out of each giving to God for a heave giving to God to Yahweh. It shall be the priest’s who sprinkles the blood of the peace offerings.
 15. The flesh of the giving it up of his peace offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten on the day of his giving to God. He won't leave any of it until the morning.
 16. “‘But if the giving it up of his giving to God is a vow, or a freewill giving to God, it shall be eaten on the day that he offers his giving it up; and on the next day what remains of it shall be eaten:
 17. but what remains of the flesh of the giving it up on the third day shall be burned with fire.
 18. If any of the flesh of the giving it up of his peace offerings is eaten on the third day, it won't be accepted, neither shall it be imputed to him who offers it. It will be an abomination, and the soul who eats any of it will bear his iniquity.
 19. “‘The flesh that touches any unclean thing won't be eaten. It shall be burned with fire. As for the flesh, everyone who is clean may eat it;
 20. but the soul who eats of the flesh of the giving it up of peace offerings, that belongs to Yahweh, having his uncleanness on him, that soul shall be cut off from his people.
 21. When anyone touches any unclean thing, the uncleanness of man, or an unclean animal, or any unclean abomination, and eats some of the flesh of the giving it up of peace offerings, which belong to Yahweh, that soul shall be cut off from his people.’”
 22. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 23. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘ya shall eat no fat, of bull, or sheep, or goat.
 24. The fat of that which dies of itself, and the fat of that which is torn of animals, may be used for any other service, but ya shall in no way eat of it.
 25. For whoever eats the fat of the animal, of which men offer an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh, even the soul who eats it shall be cut off from his people.
 26. ya won't eat any blood, whether it is of bird or of animal, in any of your dwellings.
 27. Whoever it is who eats any blood, that soul shall be cut off from his people.’”
 28. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 29. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘He who offers the giving it up of his peace offerings to Yahweh shall bring his giving to God to Yahweh out of the giving it up of his peace offerings.
 30. With his own hands he shall bring the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. He shall bring the fat with the breast, that the breast may be waved for a wave giving to God before Yahweh.
 31. The priest shall burn the fat on the prayer spot, but the breast shall be Aaron’s and his sons’.
 32. The right thigh ya shall hook it up to the priest for a heave giving to God out of the sacrifices of your peace offerings.
 33. He among the sons of Aaron who offers the blood of the peace offerings, and the fat, shall have the right thigh for a portion.
 34. For the waved breast and the heaved thigh I have taken from the children of Israel out of the sacrifices of their peace offerings, and have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons as their portion forever from the children of Israel.’”
 35. This is the anointing portion of Aaron, and the anointing portion of his sons, out of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire, in the day when he presented them to minister to Yahweh in the priest’s office;
 36. which Yahweh commanded to be given them of the children of Israel, in the day that he anointed them. It is their portion forever throughout their generations.
 37. This is the law of the burnt giving to God, of the meal giving to God, and of the messing up giving to God, and of the trespass giving to God, and of the consecration, and of the giving it up of peace offerings;
 38. which Yahweh commanded Moses in Mount Sinai, in the day that he commanded the children of Israel to offer their offerings to Yahweh, in the wilderness of Sinai.
