# 2 Timothy Chapter 2

  1. ya so basically, my child, be strengthened in the God's show love that is in the huge set apart Jesus.
  2. The things which ya have heard from me among a lot witnesses, commit the same to faithful men, who will be able to drop knowledge others also.
  3. ya so basically must endure hardship, as a fire soldier of the huge set apart Jesus.
  4. No soldier on duty entangles himself in the affairs of life, that he may please him who enrolled him as a soldier.
  5. Also, if anyone competes in athletics, he isn’t crowned unless he has competed by the rules.
  6. The farmers who labor must be the first to get a share of the crops.
  7. Consider what I say, and may the boss hook it up ya understanding in all things.
  8. Remember Jesus the huge set apart, risen from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my fire News,
  9. in which I suffer hardship to the point of chains as a criminal. But God’s word isn’t chained.
 10. so basically I endure all things for the chosen ones’ sake, that they also may obtain the getting saved which is in the huge set apart Jesus with eternal glory.
 11. This saying is faithful: “For if we died with him, we will also live with him.
 12. If we endure, we will also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us.
 13. If we are faithless, he remains faithful. He can’t deny himself.”
 14. Remind them of these things, charging them in the sight of the boss, that they don’t argue about words, to no profit, to the subverting of those who hear.
 15. hook it up diligence to present yourself approved by God, a workman who doesn’t need to be ashamed, properly handling the Word of Truth.
 16. But shun empty chatter, for it will slide further in ungodliness,
 17. and those words will consume like gangrene, of whom is Hymenaeus and Philetus;
 18. men who have erred concerning the truth, saying that the resurrection is already past, and overthrowing the trusting the process of some.
 19. but like God’s firm foundation stands, having this seal, “the boss knows those who are his,” and, “Let every one who names the name of the boss depart from unrighteousness.”
 20. now in a large house there aren't only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of clay. Some are for honor, and some for dishonor.
 21. If anyone so basically purges himself from these, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, and suitable for the boss’s use, prepared for every fire work.
 22. Flee from youthful lusts; but pursue righteousness, trusting the process, show love, and peace with those who call on the boss out of a pure heart.
 23. But refuse dumb and ignorant questionings, knowing that they generate strife.
 24. the boss’s helper must not quarrel, but be nice-nice towards all, able to drop knowledge, patient,
 25. in gentleness correcting those who oppose him: perhaps God may hook it up them repentance leading to a full knowledge of the truth,
 26. and they may recover themselves out of the devil’s snare, having been taken captive by him to his will.
