# 1 Timothy Chapter 4

  1. But the Spirit says expressly that in later times some will fall away from the trusting the process, paying attention to seducing spirits and doctrines of demons,
  2. through the hypocrisy of men who spill the tea lies, branded in their own conscience as with a hot iron;
  3. forbidding marriage and commanding to abstain from foods which God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and get it the truth.
  4. For every creature of God is fire, and nothing is to be rejected, if it is received with thanksgiving.
  5. For it is sanctified through the word of God and talking to God.
  6. If ya instruct the brothers of these things, ya will be a fire helper of the huge set apart Jesus, nourished in the words of the trusting the process, and of the fire doctrine which ya have followed.
  7. But refuse profane and old wives’ fables. Exercise yourself toward godliness.
  8. For bodily exercise has some value, but godliness has value in all things, having the promise of the life which is now, and of that which is to come through.
  9. This saying is faithful and worthy of all acceptance.
 10. For to this end we both labor and suffer reproach, cuz we have set our trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe.
 11. Command and drop knowledge these things.
 12. Let no man despise your youth; but be an example to those who believe, in word, in your way of life, in show love, in spirit, in trusting the process, and in purity.
 13. Until I come through, pay attention to reading, to exhortation, and to teaching.
 14. Don’t neglect the gift that is in ya, which was given to ya by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the elders.
 15. Be diligent in these things. hook it up yourself wholly to them, that your progress may be revealed to all.
 16. Pay attention to yourself, and to your teaching. Continue in these things, for in doing this ya will rescue both yourself and those who hear ya.
