# Colossians Chapter 1

    1. Paul, an Jesus' main squad of the huge yeeted Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy our fam bro,
    2. to the yeeted fam and faithful brothers in the huge yeeted at Colossae: God's show show love to ya and peace from God our Father, and Boss Jesus the huge yeeted.
    3. We hook it up thanks to God the Father of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted, praying always for ya,
    4. having heard of your trusting the process in the huge yeeted Jesus, and of the show show love which ya have toward all the yeeted fam,
    5. cuz of the hope which is laid up for ya in the heavens, of which ya heard before in the word of the truth of the fire News,
    6. which has come through through to ya; even as it is in all the world and is bearing fruit and growing, as it does in ya also, since the day ya heard and knew the God's show show love of God in truth;
    7. even as ya learned of Epaphras our beloved fellow helper, who is a faithful helper of the huge yeeted on our behalf,
    8. who also declared to us your show show love in the Spirit.
    9. For this cause, we also, since the day we heard this, don’t cease praying and making requests for ya, that ya may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding,
  10. that ya may walk worthily of Boss, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every fire work, and increasing in the knowledge of God;
  11. strengthened with all power, according to the might of his glory, for all endurance and perseverance with joy;
  12. giving thanks to the Father, who made us fit to be partakers of the inheritance of the yeeted fam in light;
  13. who delivered us out of the power of darkness, and translated us into the God's squad of the Son of his show show love;
  14. in whom we have our redemption, the forgiveness of our sins;
  15. who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation.
  16. For by him all things were created, in the heavens and on the earth, things visible and things invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers; all things have been created through him, and for him.
  17. He is before all things, and in him all things are held together.
  18. He is the head of the body, the assembly, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead; that in all things he might have the preeminence.
  19. For all the fullness was pleased to dwell in him;
  20. and through him to reconcile all things to himself, by him, whether things on the earth, or things in the heavens, having made peace through the blood of his cross.
  21. ya, being in past times alienated and enemies in your mind in your evil works,
  22. yet now he has reconciled in the body of his flesh through death, to present ya yeeted and without blemish and blameless before him,
  23. if it is so that ya continue in the trusting the process, grounded and steadfast, and not moved away from the hope of the fire News which ya heard, which is being proclaimed in all creation under heaven; of which I, Paul, was made a helper.
  24. now I be hyped in my sufferings for your sake, and fill up on my part that which is lacking of the afflictions of the huge yeeted in my flesh for his body’s sake, which is the assembly;
  25. of which I was made a helper, according to the stewardship of God which was given me toward ya, to fulfill the word of God,
  26. the mystery which has been hidden for ages and generations. But now it has been revealed to his yeeted fam,
  27. to whom God was pleased to create known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is the huge yeeted in ya, the hope of glory;
  28. whom we proclaim, admonishing every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in the huge yeeted Jesus;
  29. for which I also labor, striving according to his working, which works in me mightily.
