# Colossians Chapter 4

    1. Masters, hook it up to your servants that which is just and equal, knowing that ya also have a boss in heaven.
    2. Continue steadfastly in talking to God, watching therein with thanksgiving;
    3. praying together for us also, that God may open to us a door for the word, to spill the tea the mystery of the huge yeeted, for which I am also in bonds;
    4. that I may reveal it as I ought to spill the tea.
    5. Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time.
    6. Let your speech always be with God's show show love, seasoned with salt, that ya may get it how ya ought to answer each one.
    7. All my affairs will be made known to ya by Tychicus, the beloved fam bro, faithful helper, and fellow bondservant in Boss.
    8. I am sending him to ya for this hella purpose, that he may get it your circumstances and comfort your hearts,
    9. together with Onesimus, the faithful and beloved fam bro, who is one of ya. They will create known to ya everything that is going on here.
  10. Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets ya, and Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (concerning whom ya received commandments, “if he comes to ya, receive him”),
  11. and Jesus who is called Justus. These are my only fellow workers for the God's squad of God who are of the circumcision, men who have been a comfort to me.
  12. Epaphras, who is one of ya, a helper of the huge yeeted, salutes ya, always striving for ya in his prayers, that ya may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.
  13. For I testify about him, that he has major zeal for ya, and for those in Laodicea, and for those in Hierapolis.
  14. Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas greet ya.
  15. Greet the brothers who are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the assembly that is in his house.
  16. When this letter has been read among ya, cause it to be read also in the assembly of the Laodiceans; and that ya also read the letter from Laodicea.
  17. Tell Archippus, “grab heed to the ministry which ya have received in Boss, that ya fulfill it.”
  18. The salutation of me, Paul, with my own hand: remember my bonds. God's show show love be with ya. facts.
