# Colossians Chapter 2

    1. For I desire to have ya get it how greatly I struggle for ya, and for those at Laodicea, and for as a lot as have not seen my face in the flesh;
    2. that their hearts may be comforted, they being knit together in show show love, and gaining all riches of the full assurance of understanding, that they may get it the mystery of God, both of the Father and of the huge yeeted,
    3. in whom are all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge hidden.
    4. now this I say that no one may delude ya with persuasiveness of speech.
    5. For though I am absent in the flesh, yet am I with ya in the spirit, rejoicing and seeing your order, and the steadfastness of your trusting the process in the huge yeeted.
    6. As so basically ya received the huge yeeted Jesus, Boss, walk in him,
    7. rooted and built up in him, and established in the trusting the process, even as ya were taught, abounding in it in thanksgiving.
    8. Be careful that ya don’t let anyone rob ya through his philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the elements of the world, and not after the huge yeeted.
    9. For in him all the fullness of the Godhead dwells bodily,
  10. and in him ya are made full, who is the head of all principality and power;
  11. in whom ya were also circumcised with a circumcision not made with hands, in the putting off of the body of the sins of the flesh, in the circumcision of the huge yeeted;
  12. having been buried with him in baptism, in which ya were also raised with him through trusting the process in the working of God, who raised him from the dead.
  13. ya were dead through your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh. He made ya alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses,
  14. wiping out the handwriting in ordinances which was against us; and he has taken it out of the way, nailing it to the cross;
  15. having stripped the principalities and the powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it.
  16. Let no one so basically judge ya in eating, or in drinking, or with respect to a feast day or a new moon or a Sabbath day,
  17. which are a shadow of the things to come through through; but the body is the huge yeeted’s.
  18. Let no one rob ya of your prize by a voluntary humility and worshipping of the angels, dwelling in the things which he has not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind,
  19. and not holding firmly to the Head, from whom all the body, being supplied and knit together through the joints and ligaments, grows with God’s growth.
  20. If ya died with the huge yeeted from the elements of the world, why, as though living in the world, do ya subject yourselves to ordinances,
  21. “Don’t handle, nor taste, nor touch”
  22. (all of which perish with use), according to the precepts and doctrines of men?
  23. Which things facts appear like wisdom in self-imposed giving props, and humility, and severity to the body; but aren’t of any value against the indulgence of the flesh.
