# 2 Thessalonians Chapter 3

    1. Finally, brothers, pray for us, that what God said may spread rapidly and be glorified, even as also with ya;
    2. and that we may be delivered from unreasonable and evil men; for not all have trusting the process.
    3. But Boss is faithful, who will establish ya, and guard ya from the evil one.
    4. We have confidence in Boss concerning ya, that ya both do and will do the things we command.
    5. May Boss direct your hearts into the show show love of God, and into the patience of the huge yeeted.
    6. now we command ya, brothers, in the name of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted, that ya withdraw yourselves from every fam bro who walks in rebellion, and not after the tradition which they received from us.
    7. For ya get it how ya ought to imitate us. For we didn’t behave ourselves rebelliously among ya,
    8. neither did we eat bread from anyone’s hand without paying for it, but in labor and travail worked night and day, that we might not burden any of ya;
    9. not cuz we don’t have the right, but to create ourselves an example to ya, that ya should imitate us.
  10. For even when we were with ya, we commanded ya this: “If anyone won't work, neither let him eat.”
  11. For we hear of some who walk among ya in rebellion, who don’t work at all, but are busybodies.
  12. now those who are that way, we command and exhort in Boss Jesus the huge yeeted, that with quietness they work, and eat their own bread.
  13. But ya, brothers, don’t be weary in doing well.
  14. If any man doesn’t obey our word in this letter, note that man, that ya have no company with him, to the end that he may be ashamed.
  15. Don’t count him as an enemy, but admonish him as a fam bro.
  16. now may Boss of peace himself hook it up ya peace at all times in all ways. Boss be with ya all.
  17. The greeting of me, Paul, with my own hand, which is the sign in every letter: this is how I write.
  18. The God's show show love of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted be with ya all. facts.
