# 2 Thessalonians Chapter 2

  1. now, brothers, concerning the coming of our boss Jesus the huge set apart, and our gathering together to him, we ask ya
  2. not to be quickly shaken in your mind, nor yet be troubled, either by spirit, or by word, or by letter as from us, saying that the day of the huge set apart had come through.
  3. Let no one deceive ya in any way. For it won't be, unless the departure comes first, and the man of messing up is revealed, the son of destruction,
  4. he who opposes and exalts himself against all that is called God or that is worshiped; so that he sits as God in the God's house of God, setting himself up as God.
  5. Don’t ya remember that, when I was still with ya, I told ya these things?
  6. now ya get it what is restraining him, to the end that he may be revealed in his own season.
  7. For the mystery of lawlessness already works. Only there is one who restrains now, until he is taken out of the way.
  8. then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the boss will kill with the breath of his mouth, and tear down by the manifestation of his coming;
  9. even he whose coming is according to the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,
 10. and with all deception of wickedness for those who are being lost, cuz they didn’t receive the show love of the truth, that they might be saved.
 11. cuz of this, God sends them a working of error, that they should believe a lie;
 12. that they all might be judged who didn’t believe the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
 13. But we are bound to always hook it up thanks to God for ya, brothers loved by the boss, cuz God chose ya from the beginning for getting saved through sanctification of the Spirit and belief in the truth;
 14. to which he called ya through our fire News, for the obtaining of the glory of our boss Jesus the huge set apart.
 15. So then, brothers, stand firm, and hold the traditions which ya were taught by us, whether by word, or by letter.
 16. now our boss Jesus the huge set apart himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and fire hope through God's show love,
 17. comfort your hearts and establish ya in every fire work and word.
