# Ezekiel Chapter 11

    1. Moreover the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me to the east gate of Yahweh’s house, which looks eastward: and check it out, at the door of the gate twenty-five men; and I saw in their midst Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.
    2. He said to me, Son of man, these are the men who devise iniquity, and who hook it up wicked counsel in this city;
    3. who say, The time isn't near to put together houses: this is the caldron, and we are the meat.
    4. so basically prophesy against them, prophesy, son of man.
    5. The Spirit of Yahweh fell on me, and he said to me, spill the tea, Thus says Yahweh: Thus ya have said, house of Israel; for I get it the things that come through through into your mind.
    6. ya have multiplied your slain in this city, and ya have filled its streets with the slain.
    7. so basically God's like Yahweh: Your slain whom ya have laid in its midst, they are the meat, and this is the caldron; but ya shall be brought out of its midst.
    8. ya have feared the sword; and I will bring the sword on ya, says Boss Yahweh.
    9. I will bring ya forth out of its midst, and deliver ya into the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among ya.
  10. ya shall fall by the sword; I will judge ya in the border of Israel; and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  11. This won't be your caldron, neither shall ya be the meat in its midst; I will judge ya in the border of Israel;
  12. and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh: for ya have not walked in my statutes, neither have ya executed my ordinances, but have done after the ordinances of the nations that are around ya.
  13. It happened, when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. then fell I down on my face, and cried with a loud voice, and said, Ah boss Yahweh! will ya create a full end of the remnant of Israel?
  14. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  15. Son of man, your brothers, even your brothers, the men of your relatives, and all the house of Israel, all of them, to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, slide far away from Yahweh. This land has been given to us for a possession.
  16. so basically say, God's like Yahweh: Whereas I have removed them far off among the nations, and whereas I have scattered them among the countries, yet will I be to them a sanctuary for a little while in the countries where they have come through through.
  17. so basically say, God's like Yahweh: I will gather ya from the peoples, and assemble ya out of the countries where ya have been scattered, and I will hook it up ya the land of Israel.
  18. They shall come through through there, and they shall grab away all the detestable things of it and all its abominations from there.
  19. I will hook it up them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within ya; and I will grab the stony heart out of their flesh, and will hook it up them a heart of flesh;
  20. that they may walk in my statutes, and keep my ordinances, and do them: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
  21. But as for them whose heart walks after the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their way on their own heads, says Boss Yahweh.
  22. then the cherubim lifted up their wings, and the wheels were beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.
  23. The glory of Yahweh went up from the midst of the city, and stood on the mountain which is on the east side of the city.
  24. The Spirit lifted me up, and brought me in the vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to them of the captivity. So the vision that I had seen went up from me.
  25. then I spoke to them of the captivity all the things that Yahweh had shown me.
