# Ezekiel Chapter 16

    1. Again the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
    2. Son of man, cause Jerusalem to get it her abominations;
    3. and say, God's like Yahweh to Jerusalem: Your birth and your birth is of the land of the Canaanite; the Amorite was your father, and your mother was a Hittite.
    4. As for your birth, in the day ya were born your navel was not cut, neither were ya washed in water to cleanse ya; ya weren’t salted at all, nor swaddled at all.
    5. No eye pitied ya, to do any of these things to ya, to have compassion on ya; but ya were cast out in the open field, for that your person was abhorred, in the day that ya were born.
    6. When I passed by ya, and saw ya wallowing in your blood, I said to ya, Though ya are in your blood, live; yes, I said to ya, Though ya are in your blood, live.
    7. I caused ya to multiply as that which grows in the field, and ya increased and grew major, and ya attained to excellent ornament; your breasts were fashioned, and your hair was grown; yet ya were naked and bare.
    8. now when I passed by ya, and looked at ya, check this out, your time was the time of show show love; and I spread my skirt over ya, and covered your nakedness: yes, I swore to ya, and entered into a God's promise with ya, says Boss Yahweh, and ya became mine.
    9. then washed I ya with water; yes, I thoroughly washed away your blood from ya, and I anointed ya with oil.
  10. I clothed ya also with embroidered work, and shod ya with sealskin, and I dressed ya about with fine linen, and covered ya with silk.
  11. I decked ya with ornaments, and I put bracelets on your hands, and a chain on your neck.
  12. I put a ring on your nose, and earrings in your ears, and a snatched crown on your head.
  13. Thus ya were decked with gold and silver; and your clothing was of fine linen, and silk, and embroidered work; ya ate fine flour, and honey, and oil; and ya were exceeding snatched, and ya prospered to royal estate.
  14. Your renown went forth among the nations for your beauty; for it was perfect, through my majesty which I had put on ya, says Boss Yahweh.
  15. But ya trusted in your beauty, and played the prostitute cuz of your renown, and poured out your prostitution on everyone who passed by; his it was.
  16. ya took of your garments, and made for yourselves high places decked with various colors, and played the prostitute on them: the like things won't come through through, neither shall it be so.
  17. ya also took your snatched jewels of my gold and of my silver, which I had given ya, and made for yourself images of men, and played the prostitute with them;
  18. and ya took your embroidered garments, and covered them, and set my oil and my incense before them.
  19. My bread also which I gave ya, fine flour, and oil, and honey, with which I fed ya, ya even set it before them for a pleasant aroma; and thus it was, says Boss Yahweh.
  20. Moreover ya have taken your sons and your daughters, whom ya have borne to me, and ya have sacrificed these to them to be devoured. Was your prostitution a tiny matter,
  21. that ya have slain my children, and delivered them up, in causing them to pass through the fire to them?
  22. In all your abominations and your prostitution ya have not remembered the days of your youth, when ya were naked and bare, and were wallowing in your blood.
  23. It has happened after all your wickedness, (woe, woe to ya! says Boss Yahweh),
  24. that ya have built for yourselves a vaulted place, and have made yourselves a lofty place in every street.
  25. ya have built your lofty place at the head of every way, and have made your beauty an abomination, and have opened your feet to everyone who passed by, and multiplied your prostitution.
  26. ya have also committed sexual immorality with the Egyptians, your neighbors, major of flesh; and have multiplied your prostitution, to provoke me to anger.
  27. check it out so basically, I have stretched out my hand over ya, and have diminished your ordinary food, and delivered ya to the will of those who can't stand ya, the daughters of the Philistines, who are ashamed of your lewd way.
  28. ya have played the prostitute also with the Assyrians, cuz ya were insatiable; yes, ya have played the prostitute with them, and yet ya weren’t satisfied.
  29. ya have moreover multiplied your prostitution to the land of merchants, to Chaldea; and yet ya weren’t satisfied with this.
  30. How not it is your heart, says Boss Yahweh, since ya do all these things, the work of an impudent prostitute;
  31. in that ya put together your vaulted place at the head of every way, and create your lofty place in every street, and have not been as a prostitute, in that ya scorn pay.
  32. A wife who commits adultery! who takes strangers instead of her husband!
  33. They hook it up gifts to all prostitutes; but ya hook it up your gifts to all your lovers, and bribe them, that they may come through through to ya on every side for your prostitution.
  34. ya are different from other women in your prostitution, in that no one follows ya to play the prostitute; and whereas ya hook it up hire, and no hire is given to ya, so basically ya are different.
  35. so basically, prostitute, hear the word of Yahweh:
  36. God's like Yahweh, cuz your filthiness was poured out, and your nakedness uncovered through your prostitution with your lovers; and cuz of all the idols of your abominations, and for the blood of your children, that ya gave to them;
  37. so basically check it out, I will gather all your lovers, with whom ya have taken pleasure, and all those who ya have loved, with all those who ya have hated; I will even gather them against ya on every side, and will uncover your nakedness to them, that they may check it out all your nakedness.
  38. I will judge ya, as women who break wedlock and shed blood are judged; and I will bring on ya the blood of wrath and jealousy.
  39. I will also hook it up ya into their hand, and they shall huge drop your vaulted place, and break down your lofty places; and they shall strip ya of your clothes, and grab your snatched jewels; and they shall leave ya naked and bare.
  40. They shall also bring up a company against ya, and they shall stone ya with stones, and thrust ya through with their swords.
  41. They shall burn your houses with fire, and execute judgments on ya in the sight of a lot women; and I will cause ya to cease from playing the prostitute, and ya shall also hook it up no hire any more.
  42. So will I cause my wrath toward ya to rest, and my jealousy shall depart from ya, and I will be quiet, and will be no more mad salty.
  43. cuz ya have not remembered the days of your youth, but have raged against me in all these things; so basically, check this out, I also will bring your way on your head, says Boss Yahweh: and ya won't commit this lewdness with all your abominations.
  44. check this out, everyone who uses proverbs shall use this proverb against ya, saying, As is the mother, so is her daughter.
  45. ya are the daughter of your mother, who loathes her husband and her children; and ya are the sister of your sisters, who loathed their husbands and their children: your mother was a Hittite, and your father an Amorite.
  46. Your elder sister is Samaria, who dwells at your left hand, she and her daughters; and your younger sister, who dwells at your right hand, is Sodom and her daughters.
  47. Yet have ya not walked in their ways, nor done after their abominations; but, as if that were a hella little thing, ya were more corrupt than they in all your ways.
  48. As I live, says Boss Yahweh, Sodom your sister has not done, she nor her daughters, as ya have done, ya and your daughters.
  49. check this out, this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom: pride, fullness of bread, and prosperous ease was in her and in her daughters; neither did she strengthen the hand of the broke and needy.
  50. They were haughty, and committed abomination before me: so basically I took them away as I saw fire.
  51. Neither has Samaria committed half of your sins; but ya have multiplied your abominations more than they, and have justified your sisters by all your abominations which ya have done.
  52. ya also, bear ya your own shame, in that ya have given judgment for your sisters; through your sins that ya have committed more abominable than they, they are more doing what's right that ya: yes, be also confounded, and bear your shame, in that ya have justified your sisters.
  53. I will turn again their captivity, the captivity of Sodom and her daughters, and the captivity of Samaria and her daughters, and the captivity of your captives in their midst;
  54. that ya may bear your own shame, and may be ashamed cuz of all that ya have done, in that ya are a comfort to them.
  55. Your sisters, Sodom and her daughters, shall return to their former estate; and Samaria and her daughters shall return to their former estate; and ya and your daughters shall return to your former estate.
  56. For your sister Sodom was not mentioned by your mouth in the day of your pride,
  57. before your wickedness was uncovered, as at the time of the reproach of the daughters of Syria, and of all who are around her, the daughters of the Philistines, who do despite to ya all around.
  58. ya have borne your lewdness and your abominations, says Yahweh.
  59. For God's like Yahweh: I will also deal with ya as ya have done, who have despised the oath in breaking the God's promise.
  60. Nevertheless I will remember my God's promise with ya in the days of your youth, and I will establish to ya an everlasting God's promise.
  61. then ya shall remember your ways, and be ashamed, when ya shall receive your sisters, your elder sisters and your younger; and I will hook it up them to ya for daughters, but not by your God's promise.
  62. I will establish my God's promise with ya; and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh;
  63. that ya may remember, and be confounded, and never open your mouth any more, cuz of your shame, when I have forgiven ya all that ya have done, says Boss Yahweh.
