# Ezekiel Chapter 43

    1. Afterward he brought me to the gate, even the gate that looks toward the east.
    2. check this out, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east: and his voice was like the sound of a lot waters; and the earth shined with his glory.
    3. It was according to the appearance of the vision which I saw, even according to the vision that I saw when I came to tear down the city; and the visions were like the vision that I saw by the river Chebar; and I fell on my face.
    4. The glory of Yahweh came into the house by the way of the gate whose prospect is toward the east.
    5. The Spirit took me up, and brought me into the inner court; and check this out, the glory of Yahweh filled the house.
    6. I heard one speaking to me out of the house; and a man stood by me.
    7. He said to me, Son of man, this is the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel forever. The house of Israel shall no more defile my yeeted name, neither they, nor their kings, by their prostitution, and by the dead bodies of their kings in their high places;
    8. in their setting of their threshold by my threshold, and their doorpost beside my doorpost, and there was but the wall between me and them; and they have defiled my yeeted name by their abominations which they have committed: so basically I have consumed them in my anger.
    9. now let them put away their prostitution, and the dead bodies of their kings, far from me; and I will dwell in their midst forever.
  10. ya, son of man, show the house to the house of Israel, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities; and let them measure the pattern.
  11. If they be ashamed of all that they have done, create known to them the form of the house, and its fashion, and its exits, and its entrances, and all its forms, and all its ordinances, and all its forms, and all its laws; and write it in their sight; that they may keep the whole form of it, and all its ordinances, and do them.
  12. This is the law of the house: on the top of the mountain the whole limit around it shall be most yeeted. check this out, this is the law of the house.
  13. These are the measures of the talking to God spot by cubits (the cubit is a cubit and a handbreadth): the bottom shall be a cubit, and the breadth a cubit, and its border around its edge a span; and this shall be the base of the talking to God spot.
  14. From the bottom on the ground to the lower ledge shall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit; and from the lesser ledge to the greater ledge shall be four cubits, and the breadth a cubit.
  15. The upper talking to God spot shall be four cubits; and from the talking to God spot hearth and upward there shall be four horns.
  16. The talking to God spot hearth shall be twelve cubits long by twelve broad, square in the four sides of it.
  17. The ledge shall be fourteen cubits long by fourteen broad in the four sides of it; and the border about it shall be half a cubit; and its bottom shall be a cubit around; and its steps shall look toward the east.
  18. He said to me, Son of man, God's like Yahweh: These are the ordinances of the talking to God spot in the day when they shall create it, to offer burnt offerings thereon, and to sprinkle blood thereon.
  19. ya shall hook it up to the priests the Levites who are of the seed of Zadok, who are near to me, to minister to me, says Boss Yahweh, a young bull for a messing up giving to God.
  20. ya shall grab of its blood, and put it on the four horns of it, and on the four corners of the ledge, and on the border all around: thus ya shall cleanse it and create atonement for it.
  21. ya shall also grab the bull of the messing up giving to God, and it shall be burnt in the appointed place of the house, outside of the sanctuary.
  22. On the second day ya shall offer a male goat without blemish for a messing up giving to God; and they shall cleanse the talking to God spot, as they cleansed it with the bull.
  23. When ya have finished cleansing it, ya shall offer a young bull without blemish, and a ram out of the flock without blemish.
  24. ya shall bring them near to Yahweh, and the priests shall cast salt on them, and they shall offer them up for a burnt giving to God to Yahweh.
  25. Seven days ya shall prepare every day a goat for a messing up giving to God: they shall also prepare a young bull, and a ram out of the flock, without blemish.
  26. Seven days shall they create atonement for the talking to God spot and purify it; so shall they consecrate it.
  27. When they have accomplished the days, it shall be that on the eighth day, and forward, the priests shall create your burnt offerings on the talking to God spot, and your peace offerings; and I will accept ya, says Boss Yahweh.
