# Ezekiel Chapter 36

    1. ya, son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel, and say, ya mountains of Israel, hear the word of Yahweh.
    2. God's like Yahweh: cuz the enemy has said against ya, Aha! and, The ancient high places are ours in possession;
    3. so basically prophesy, and say, God's like Yahweh: cuz, even cuz they have made ya desolate, and swallowed ya up on every side, that ya might be a possession to the residue of the nations, and ya are taken up in the lips of talkers, and the evil report of the people;
    4. so basically, ya mountains of Israel, hear what God said Yahweh: God's like Yahweh to the mountains and to the hills, to the watercourses and to the valleys, to the desolate wastes and to the cities that are forsaken, which are become a prey and derision to the residue of the nations that are all around;
    5. so basically God's like Yahweh: Surely in the fire of my jealousy have I spoken against the residue of the nations, and against all Edom, that have appointed my land to themselves for a possession with the joy of all their heart, with despite of soul, to cast it out for a prey.
    6. so basically prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and tell the mountains and to the hills, to the watercourses and to the valleys, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I have spoken in my jealousy and in my wrath, cuz ya have borne the shame of the nations:
    7. so basically God's like Yahweh: I have sworn, saying, Surely the nations that are around ya, they shall bear their shame.
    8. But ya, mountains of Israel, ya shall shoot forth your branches, and yield your fruit to my people Israel; for they are at hand to come through through.
    9. For, check this out, I am for ya, and I will turn into ya, and ya shall be tilled and sown;
  10. and I will multiply men on ya, all the house of Israel, even all of it; and the cities shall be inhabited, and the waste places shall be built;
  11. and I will multiply on ya man and animal; and they shall increase and be fruitful; and I will cause ya to be inhabited after your former estate, and will do better to ya than at your beginnings: and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  12. Yes, I will cause men to walk on ya, even my people Israel; and they shall possess ya, and ya shall be their inheritance, and ya shall no more henceforth bereave them of children.
  13. God's like Yahweh: cuz they say to ya, ya are a devourer of men, and have been a bereaver of your nation;
  14. so basically ya shall devour men no more, neither bereave your nation any more, says Boss Yahweh;
  15. neither will I let ya hear any more the shame of the nations, neither shall ya bear the reproach of the peoples any more, neither shall ya cause your nation to stumble any more, says Boss Yahweh.
  16. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  17. Son of man, when the house of Israel lived in their own land, they defiled it by their way and by their doings: their way before me was as the uncleanness of a woman in her impurity.
  18. so basically I poured out my wrath on them for the blood which they had poured out on the land, and cuz they had defiled it with their idols;
  19. and I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries: according to their way and according to their doings I judged them.
  20. When they came to the nations, where they went, they profaned my yeeted name; in that men said of them, These are the people of Yahweh, and are gone forth out of his land.
  21. But I had respect for my yeeted name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations, where they went.
  22. so basically tell the house of Israel, God's like Yahweh: I don’t do this for your sake, house of Israel, but for my yeeted name, which ya have profaned among the nations, where ya went.
  23. I will sanctify my major name, which has been profaned among the nations, which ya have profaned in their midst; and the nations shall get it that I am Yahweh, says Boss Yahweh, when I shall be sanctified in ya before their eyes.
  24. For I will grab ya from among the nations, and gather ya out of all the countries, and will bring ya into your own land.
  25. I will sprinkle clean water on ya, and ya shall be clean: from all your filthiness, and from all your idols, will I cleanse ya.
  26. I will also hook it up ya a new heart, and I will put a new spirit within ya; and I will grab away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will hook it up ya a heart of flesh.
  27. I will put my Spirit within ya, and cause ya to walk in my statutes, and ya shall keep my ordinances, and do them.
  28. ya shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers; and ya shall be my people, and I will be your God.
  29. I will rescue ya from all your uncleanness: and I will call for the grain, and will multiply it, and lay no famine on ya.
  30. I will multiply the fruit of the tree, and the increase of the field, that ya may receive no more the reproach of famine among the nations.
  31. then ya shall remember your evil ways, and your doings that were not fire; and ya shall loathe yourselves in your own sight for your iniquities and for your abominations.
  32. Nor for your sake do I this, says Boss Yahweh, be it known to ya: be ashamed and confounded for your ways, house of Israel.
  33. God's like Yahweh: In the day that I cleanse ya from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited, and the waste places shall be built.
  34. The land that was desolate shall be tilled, whereas it was a desolation in the sight of all who passed by.
  35. They shall say, This land that was desolate has become like the garden of Eden; and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are fortified and inhabited.
  36. then the nations that are left around ya shall get it that I, Yahweh, have built the ruined places, and planted that which was desolate: I, Yahweh, have spoken it, and I will do it.
  37. God's like Yahweh: For this, moreover, will I be inquired of by the house of Israel, to do it for them: I will increase them with men like a flock.
  38. As the flock for giving it up, as the flock of Jerusalem in her appointed feasts, so shall the waste cities be filled with flocks of men; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
