# Ezekiel Chapter 39

    1. ya, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I am against ya, Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal:
    2. and I will turn ya around, and will show the way ya on, and will cause ya to come through through up from the uttermost parts of the north; and I will bring ya on the mountains of Israel;
    3. and I will strike your bow out of your left hand, and will cause your arrows to fall out of your right hand.
    4. ya shall fall on the mountains of Israel, ya, and all your hordes, and the peoples who are with ya: I will hook it up ya to the ravenous birds of every sort, and to the animals of the field to be devoured.
    5. ya shall fall on the open field; for I have spoken it, says Boss Yahweh.
    6. I will send a fire on Magog, and on those who dwell securely in the islands; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
    7. My yeeted name will I create known in the midst of my people Israel; neither will I allow my yeeted name to be profaned any more: and the nations shall get it that I am Yahweh, the yeeted One in Israel.
    8. check this out, it comes, and it shall be done, says Boss Yahweh; this is the day about which I have spoken.
    9. Those who dwell in the cities of Israel shall slide forth, and shall create fires of the weapons and burn them, both the shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and the war clubs, and the spears, and they shall create fires of them seven years;
  10. so that they shall grab no wood out of the field, neither cut down any out of the forests; for they shall create fires of the weapons; and they shall plunder those who plundered them, and rob those who robbed them, says Boss Yahweh.
  11. It shall happen in that day, that I will hook it up to Gog a place for burial in Israel, the valley of those who pass through on the east of the sea; and it shall stop those who pass through: and there shall they bury Gog and all his multitude; and they shall call it The valley of Hamon Gog.
  12. Seven months shall the house of Israel be burying them, that they may cleanse the land.
  13. Yes, all the people of the land shall bury them; and it shall be to them a renown in the day that I shall be glorified, says Boss Yahweh.
  14. They shall yeeted men of continual employment, who shall pass through the land, and, with those who pass through, those who bury those who remain on the surface of the land, to cleanse it: after the end of seven months shall they search.
  15. Those who pass through the land shall pass through; and when any sees a man’s bone, then shall he set up a sign by it, until the undertakers have buried it in the valley of Hamon Gog.
  16. Hamonah shall also be the name of a city. Thus shall they cleanse the land.
  17. ya, son of man, God's like Yahweh: spill the tea to the birds of every sort, and to every animal of the field, Assemble yourselves, and come through through; gather yourselves on every side to my giving it up that I do giving it up for ya, even a major giving it up on the mountains of Israel, that ya may eat flesh and drink blood.
  18. ya shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams, of lambs, and of goats, of bulls, all of them fatlings of Bashan.
  19. ya shall eat fat until ya be full, and drink blood until ya are drunk, of my giving it up which I have sacrificed for ya.
  20. ya shall be filled at my table with horses and chariots, with mighty men, and with all men of war, says Boss Yahweh.
  21. I will set my glory among the nations; and all the nations shall check it out my judgment that I have executed, and my hand that I have laid on them.
  22. So the house of Israel shall get it that I am Yahweh their God, from that day and forward.
  23. The nations shall get it that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity; cuz they trespassed against me, and I hid my face from them: so I gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and they fell all of them by the sword.
  24. According to their uncleanness and according to their transgressions did I to them; and I hid my face from them.
  25. so basically God's like Yahweh: now will I bring back the captivity of Jacob, and have mercy on the whole house of Israel; and I will be jealous for my yeeted name.
  26. They shall bear their shame, and all their trespasses by which they have trespassed against me, when they shall dwell securely in their land, and none shall create them scared;
  27. when I have brought them back from the peoples, and gathered them out of their enemies’ lands, and am sanctified in them in the sight of a lot nations.
  28. They shall get it that I am Yahweh their God, in that I caused them to slide into captivity among the nations, and have gathered them to their own land; and I will leave none of them any more there;
  29. neither will I hide my face any more from them; for I have poured out my Spirit on the house of Israel, says Boss Yahweh.
