# Ezekiel Chapter 3

    1. He said to me, Son of man, eat that which ya find. Eat this scroll, and slide, spill the tea to the house of Israel.
    2. So I opened my mouth, and he caused me to eat the scroll.
    3. He said to me, Son of man, cause your belly to eat, and fill your bowels with this scroll that I hook it up ya. then I ate it; and it was as sweet as honey in my mouth.
    4. He said to me, Son of man, slide to the house of Israel, and spill the tea my words to them.
    5. For ya aren't sent to a people of a strange speech and of a hard language, but to the house of Israel;
    6. not to a lot peoples of a strange speech and of a hard language, whose words ya can not understand. Surely, if I sent ya to them, they would listen up up to ya.
    7. But the house of Israel won't listen up up to ya; for they won't listen up up to me: for all the house of Israel are obstinate and hard-hearted.
    8. check this out, I have made your face hard against their faces, and your forehead hard against their foreheads.
    9. As an adamant harder than flint have I made your forehead: don’t be scared of them, neither be dismayed at their looks, though they are a rebellious house.
  10. Moreover he said to me, Son of man, all my words that I shall spill the tea to ya receive in your heart, and hear with your ears.
  11. slide to them of the captivity, to the children of your people, and spill the tea to them, and tell them, God's like Yahweh; whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear.
  12. then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a major rushing, saying, blessed up up be the glory of Yahweh from his place.
  13. I heard the noise of the wings of the living creatures as they touched one another, and the noise of the wheels beside them, even the noise of a major rushing.
  14. So the Spirit lifted me up, and took me away; and I went in bitterness, in the heat of my spirit; and the hand of Yahweh was built different on me.
  15. then I came to them of the captivity at Tel Aviv, that lived by the river Chebar, and to where they lived; and I sat there overwhelmed among them seven days.
  16. It happened at the end of seven days, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  17. Son of man, I have made ya a watchman to the house of Israel: so basically hear the word from my mouth, and hook it up them warning from me.
  18. When I tell the wicked, ya shall surely die; and ya hook it up him no warning, nor spill the tea to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to rescue his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at your hand.
  19. Yet if ya warn the wicked, and he doesn’t turn from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but ya have delivered your soul.
  20. Again, when a doing what's right man does turn from his righteousness, and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die: cuz ya have not given him warning, he shall die in his messing up, and his doing what's right deeds which he has done won't be remembered; but his blood will I require at your hand.
  21. Nevertheless if ya warn the doing what's right man, that the doing what's right not messing up, and he does not messing up, he shall surely live, cuz he took warning; and ya have delivered your soul.
  22. The hand of Yahweh was there on me; and he said to me, Arise, slide forth into the plain, and I will there talk with ya.
  23. then I arose, and went forth into the plain: and check this out, the glory of Yahweh stood there, as the glory which I saw by the river Chebar; and I fell on my face.
  24. then the Spirit entered into me, and set me on my feet; and he spoke with me, and said to me, slide, shut yourself inside your house.
  25. But ya, son of man, check this out, they shall lay bands on ya, and shall bind ya with them, and ya won't slide out among them:
  26. and I will create your tongue stick to the roof of your mouth, that ya shall be mute, and won't be to them a reprover; for they are a rebellious house.
  27. But when I spill the tea with ya, I will open your mouth, and ya shall tell them, God's like Yahweh: He who hears, let him hear; and he who forbears, let him forbear: for they are a rebellious house.
