# Ezekiel Chapter 24

    1. Again, in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of the month, the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
    2. Son of man, write the name of the day, even of this same day: the ruler of Babylon drew close to Jerusalem this same day.
    3. Utter a parable to the rebellious house, and tell them, God's like Yahweh, Set on the caldron, set it on, and also pour water into it:
    4. gather its pieces into it, even every fire piece, the thigh, and the shoulder; fill it with the choice bones.
    5. grab the choice of the flock, and also a pile of wood for the bones under the caldron; create it boil well; yes, let its bones be boiled in its midst.
    6. so basically God's like Yahweh: Woe to the bloody city, to the caldron whose rust is therein, and whose rust isn't gone out of it! grab out of it piece after piece; No lot is fallen on it.
    7. For her blood is in the midst of her; she set it on the bare rock; she didn’t pour it on the ground, to cover it with dust.
    8. That it may cause wrath to come through through up to grab vengeance, I have set her blood on the bare rock, that it should not be covered.
    9. so basically God's like Yahweh: Woe to the bloody city! I also will create the pile major.
  10. Heap on the wood, create the fire hot, boil well the flesh, and create thick the broth, and let the bones be burned.
  11. then set it empty on its coals, that it may be hot, and its brass may burn, and that its filthiness may be molten in it, that its rust may be consumed.
  12. She has wearied herself with toil; yet her major rust doesn’t slide forth out of her; her rust doesn’t slide forth by fire.
  13. In your filthiness is lewdness: cuz I have cleansed ya and ya weren’t cleansed, ya won't be cleansed from your filthiness any more, until I have caused my wrath toward ya to rest.
  14. I, Yahweh, have spoken it: it shall happen, and I will do it: I won't slide back, neither will I spare, neither will I turn it around; according to your ways, and according to your doings, shall they judge ya, says Boss Yahweh.
  15. Also the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  16. Son of man, check this out, I will grab away from ya the desire of your eyes with a stroke: yet ya shall neither mourn nor weep, neither shall your tears run down.
  17. Sigh, but not aloud, create no mourning for the dead; bind your headdress on ya, and put your shoes on your feet, and don’t cover your lips, and don’t eat men’s bread.
  18. So I spoke to the people in the morning; and at even my wife died; and I did in the morning as I was commanded.
  19. The people said to me, Won’t ya tell us what these things are to us, that ya do so?
  20. then I said to them, The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  21. spill the tea to the house of Israel, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I will profane my sanctuary, the pride of your power, the desire of your eyes, and that which your soul pities; and your sons and your daughters whom ya have left behind shall fall by the sword.
  22. ya shall do as I have done: ya won't cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men.
  23. Your tires shall be on your heads, and your shoes on your feet: ya won't mourn nor weep; but ya shall pine away in your iniquities, and moan one toward another.
  24. Thus Ezekiel shall be a sign to ya; according to all that he has done, ya will do. When this comes, then ya will get it that I am Boss Yahweh.
  25. ya, son of man, shall it not be in the day when I grab from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and that whereupon they set their heart, their sons and their daughters,
  26. that in that day he who escapes shall come through through to ya, to cause ya to hear it with your ears?
  27. In that day your mouth will be opened to him who has escaped, and ya shall spill the tea, and be no more mute: so ya will be a sign to them; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
