# Ezekiel Chapter 13

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who prophesy, and say to those who prophesy out of their own heart, Hear the word of Yahweh:
  3. God's like Yahweh, Woe to the dumb prophets, who roll with their own spirit, and have seen nothing!
  4. Israel, your prophets have been like foxes in the waste places.
  5. ya have not gone up into the gaps, neither built up the wall for the house of Israel, to stand in the battle in the day of Yahweh.
  6. They have seen falsehood and lying divination, who say, Yahweh says; but Yahweh has not sent them: and they have made men to hope that the word would be confirmed.
  7. Haven’t ya seen a false vision, and haven’t ya spoken a lying divination, in that ya say, Yahweh says; but I have not spoken?
  8. so basically God's like Yahweh: cuz ya have spoken falsehood, and seen lies, so basically, check this out,, I am against ya, says the boss Yahweh.
  9. My hand shall be against the prophets who check it out false visions, and who divine lies: they won't be in the council of my people, neither shall they be written in the writing of the house of Israel, neither shall they enter into the land of Israel; and ya shall get it that I am the boss Yahweh.
 10. cuz, even cuz they have seduced my people, saying, Peace; and there is no peace; and when one builds up a wall, check this out,, they plaster it with whitewash:
 11. tell those who plaster it with whitewash, that it shall fall: there shall be an overflowing shower; and ya, major hailstones, shall fall; and a stormy wind shall tear it.
 12. check this out,, when the wall has fallen, shall it not be said to ya, Where is the plaster with which ya have plastered it?
 13. so basically God's like Yahweh: I will even tear it with a stormy wind in my wrath; and there shall be an overflowing shower in my anger, and major hailstones in wrath to consume it.
 14. So will I break down the wall that ya have plastered with whitewash, and bring it down to the ground, so that its foundation shall be uncovered; and it shall fall, and ya shall be consumed in its midst: and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 15. Thus will I accomplish my wrath on the wall, and on those who have plastered it with whitewash; and I will tell ya, The wall is no more, neither those who plastered it;
 16. to wit, the prophets of Israel who prophesy concerning Jerusalem, and who check it out visions of peace for her, and there is no peace, says the boss Yahweh.
 17. ya, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people, who prophesy out of their own heart; and prophesy against them,
 18. and say, God's like Yahweh: Woe to the women who sew pillows on all elbows, and create kerchiefs for the head of persons of every stature to hunt souls! Will ya hunt the souls of my people, and rescue souls alive for yourselves?
 19. ya have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, to kill the souls who should not die, and to rescue the souls alive who should not live, by your lying to my people who listen up to lies.
 20. so basically God's like Yahweh: check this out,, I am against your pillows, with which ya there hunt the souls to create them fly, and I will tear them from your arms; and I will let the souls slide, even the souls whom ya hunt to create them fly.
 21. Your kerchiefs also will I tear, and deliver my people out of your hand, and they shall be no more in your hand to be hunted; and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 22. cuz with lies ya have grieved the heart of the doing what's right, whom I have not made sad; and strengthened the hands of the wicked, that he should not return from his wicked way, and be saved alive:
 23. so basically ya shall no more check it out false visions, nor practice divination. I will deliver my people out of your hand; and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh.
