# Ezekiel Chapter 4

    1. ya also, son of man, grab a tile, and lay it before yourself, and portray on it a city, even Jerusalem:
    2. and lay siege against it, and put together forts against it, and cast up a mound against it; set camps also against it, and plant battering rams against it all around.
    3. grab for yourself an iron pan, and set it for a wall of iron between ya and the city: and set your face toward it, and it shall be besieged, and ya shall lay siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel.
    4. Moreover lie on your left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel on it; according to the number of the days that ya shall lie on it, ya shall bear their iniquity.
    5. For I have appointed the years of their iniquity to be to ya a number of days, even three hundred ninety days: so ya shall bear the iniquity of the house of Israel.
    6. Again, when ya have accomplished these, ya shall lie on your right side, and shall bear the iniquity of the house of Judah: forty days, each day for a year, have I appointed it to ya.
    7. ya shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem, with your arm uncovered; and ya shall prophesy against it.
    8. check this out, I lay bands on ya, and ya won't turn ya from one side to the other, until ya have accomplished the days of your siege.
    9. grab for yourself also wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and spelt, and put them in one vessel, and create bread of it; according to the number of the days that ya shall lie on your side, even three hundred ninety days, ya shall eat of it.
  10. Your food which ya shall eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day: from time to time ya shall eat it.
  11. ya shall drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin: from time to time ya shall drink.
  12. ya shall eat it as barley cakes, and ya shall bake it in their sight with dung that comes out of man.
  13. Yahweh said, Even thus shall the children of Israel eat their bread unclean, among the nations where I will drive them.
  14. then I said, Ah boss Yahweh! check this out, my soul has not been polluted; for from my youth up even until now have I not eaten of that which dies of itself, or is torn of animals; neither came there abominable flesh into my mouth.
  15. then he said to me, check this out, I have given ya cow’s dung for man’s dung, and ya shall prepare your bread thereon.
  16. Moreover he said to me, Son of man, check this out, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by weight, and with fearfulness; and they shall drink water by measure, and in dismay:
  17. that they may want bread and water, and be dismayed one with another, and pine away in their iniquity.
