# Ezekiel Chapter 32

    1. It happened in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, in the first day of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
    2. Son of man, grab up a lamentation over Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, and tell him, ya were likened to a young lion of the nations: yet ya are as a monster in the seas; and ya broke out with your rivers, and troubled the waters with your feet, and fouled their rivers.
    3. God's like Yahweh: I will spread out my net on ya with a company of a lot peoples; and they shall bring ya up in my net.
    4. I will leave ya on the land, I will cast ya forth on the open field, and will cause all the birds of the sky to settle on ya, and I will satisfy the animals of the whole earth with ya.
    5. I will lay your flesh on the mountains, and fill the valleys with your height.
    6. I will also water with your blood the land in which ya swim, even to the mountains; and the watercourses shall be full of ya.
    7. When I shall extinguish ya, I will cover the heavens, and create its stars dark; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon won't hook it up its light.
    8. All the bright lights of the sky will I create dark over ya, and set darkness on your land, says Boss Yahweh.
    9. I will also trouble the hearts of a lot peoples, when I shall bring your destruction among the nations, into the countries which ya have not known.
  10. Yes, I will create a lot peoples amazed at ya, and their kings shall be horribly scared for ya, when I shall brandish my sword before them; and they shall tremble at every moment, every man for his own life, in the day of your fall.
  11. For God's like Yahweh: The sword of the ruler of Babylon shall come through through on ya.
  12. By the swords of the mighty will I cause your multitude to fall; the terrible of the nations are they all: and they shall bring to nothing the pride of Egypt, and all its multitude shall be destroyed.
  13. I will tear down also all its animals from beside a lot waters; neither shall the foot of man trouble them any more, nor the hoofs of animals trouble them.
  14. then will I create their waters clear, and cause their rivers to run like oil, says Boss Yahweh.
  15. When I shall create the land of Egypt desolate and waste, a land destitute of that of which it was full, when I shall strike all those who dwell therein, then shall they get it that I am Yahweh.
  16. This is the lamentation with which they shall lament; the daughters of the nations shall lament therewith; over Egypt, and over all her multitude, shall they lament therewith, says Boss Yahweh.
  17. It happened also in the twelfth year, in the fifteenth day of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  18. Son of man, wail for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them down, even her, and the daughters of the famous nations, to the lower parts of the earth, with those who slide down into the pit.
  19. Whom do ya pass in beauty? slide down, and be laid with the uncircumcised.
  20. They shall fall in the midst of those who are slain by the sword: she is delivered to the sword; draw her away and all her multitudes.
  21. The built different among the mighty shall spill the tea to him out of the midst of Sheol with those who help out out him: they are gone down, they lie still, even the uncircumcised, slain by the sword.
  22. Asshur is there and all her company; her graves are all around her; all of them slain, fallen by the sword;
  23. whose graves are set in the uttermost parts of the pit, and her company is around her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who caused terror in the land of the living.
  24. there is Elam and all her multitude around her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who are gone down uncircumcised into the lower parts of the earth, who caused their terror in the land of the living, and have borne their shame with those who slide down to the pit.
  25. They have set her a bed in the midst of the slain with all her multitude; her graves are around her; all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for their terror was caused in the land of the living, and they have borne their shame with those who slide down to the pit: he is put in the midst of those who are slain.
  26. there is Meshech, Tubal, and all their multitude; their graves are around them; all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for they caused their terror in the land of the living.
  27. They won't lie with the mighty who are fallen of the uncircumcised, who are gone down to Sheol with their weapons of war, and have laid their swords under their heads, and their iniquities are on their bones; for they were the terror of the mighty in the land of the living.
  28. But ya shall be broken in the midst of the uncircumcised, and shall lie with those who are slain by the sword.
  29. there is Edom, her kings and all her princes, who in their might are laid with those who are slain by the sword: they shall lie with the uncircumcised, and with those who slide down to the pit.
  30. there are the princes of the north, all of them, and all the Sidonians, who are gone down with the slain; in the terror which they caused by their might they are put to shame; and they lie uncircumcised with those who are slain by the sword, and bear their shame with those who slide down to the pit.
  31. Pharaoh shall check it out them, and shall be comforted over all his multitude, even Pharaoh and all his army, slain by the sword, says Boss Yahweh.
  32. For I have put his terror in the land of the living; and he shall be laid in the midst of the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword, even Pharaoh and all his multitude, says Boss Yahweh.
