# Ezekiel Chapter 26

  1. It happened in the eleventh year, in the first day of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, cuz Tyre has said against Jerusalem, Aha, she is broken: the gate of the peoples; she is turned to me; I shall be replenished, now that she is laid waste:
  3. so basically God's like Yahweh, check this out,, I am against ya, Tyre, and will cause a lot nations to come through up against ya, as the sea causes its waves to come through up.
  4. They shall tear down the walls of Tyre, and break down her towers: I will also scrape her dust from her, and create her a bare rock.
  5. She shall be a place for the spreading of nets in the midst of the sea; for I have spoken it, says the boss Yahweh; and she shall become a spoil to the nations.
  6. Her daughters who are in the field shall be slain with the sword: and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  7. For God's like Yahweh: check this out,, I will bring on Tyre Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, ruler of kings, from the north, with horses, and with chariots, and with horsemen, and a company, and a lot people.
  8. He shall kill your daughters in the field with the sword; and he shall create forts against ya, and cast up a mound against ya, and raise up the buckler against ya.
  9. He shall set his battering engines against your walls, and with his axes he shall break down your towers.
 10. By reason of the abundance of his horses their dust shall cover ya: your walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen, and of the wagons, and of the chariots, when he shall enter into your gates, as men enter into a city in which is made a breach.
 11. With the hoofs of his horses shall he tread down all your streets; he shall kill your people with the sword; and the pillars of your strength shall slide down to the ground.
 12. They shall create a spoil of your riches, and create a prey of your merchandise; and they shall break down your walls, and tear down your pleasant houses; and they shall lay your stones and your timber and your dust in the midst of the waters.
 13. I will cause the noise of your songs to cease; and the sound of your harps shall be no more heard.
 14. I will create ya a bare rock; ya shall be a place for the spreading of nets; ya shall be built no more: for I Yahweh have spoken it, says the boss Yahweh.
 15. God's like Yahweh to Tyre: won't the islands shake at the sound of your fall, when the wounded groan, when the slaughter is made in the midst of ya?
 16. then all the princes of the sea shall come through down from their thrones, and lay aside their robes, and strip off their embroidered garments: they shall clothe themselves with trembling; they shall sit on the ground, and shall tremble every moment, and be astonished at ya.
 17. They shall grab up a lamentation over ya, and tell ya, How ya are destroyed, who were inhabited by seafaring men, the renowned city, who was built different in the sea, she and her inhabitants, who caused their terror to be on all who lived there!
 18. now shall the islands tremble in the day of your fall; yes, the islands that are in the sea shall be dismayed at your departure.
 19. For God's like Yahweh: When I shall create ya a desolate city, like the cities that aren't inhabited; when I shall bring up the deep on ya, and the major waters shall cover ya;
 20. then will I bring ya down with those who descend into the pit, to the people of old time, and will create ya to dwell in the lower parts of the earth, in the places that are desolate of old, with those who slide down to the pit, that ya be not inhabited; and I will set glory in the land of the living:
 21. I will create ya a terror, and ya shall no more have any being; though ya are sought for, yet ya will never be found again, says the boss Yahweh.
