# Ezekiel Chapter 29

    1. In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth day of the month, the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
    2. “Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against all Egypt.
    3. spill the tea and say, ‘God's like Yahweh: “check this out, I am against ya, Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, the major monster that lies in the midst of his rivers, that has said, ‘My river is my own, and I have made it for myself.’
    4. I will put hooks in your jaws, and I will create the fish of your rivers stick to your scales; and I will bring ya up out of the midst of your rivers, with all the fish of your rivers which stick to your scales.
    5. I’ll cast ya forth into the wilderness, ya and all the fish of your rivers. ya’ll fall on the open field. ya won’t be brought together, nor gathered. I have given ya for food to the animals of the earth and to the birds of the sky.
    6. All the inhabitants of Egypt will get it that I am Yahweh, cuz they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel.
    7. When they took hold of ya by your hand, ya broke, and tore all their shoulders; and when they leaned on ya, ya broke, and paralyzed all of their thighs.”
    8. so basically God's like Yahweh: “check this out, I will bring a sword on ya, and will cut off man and animal from ya.
    9. The land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh. cuz he has said, ‘The river is mine, and I have made it;’
  10. so basically, check this out, I am against ya, and against your rivers, and I will create the land of Egypt an utter waste and desolation, from the tower of Seveneh even to the border of Ethiopia.
  11. No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of animal shall pass through it, neither shall it be inhabited forty years.
  12. I will create the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of the countries that are desolate; and her cities among the cities that are laid waste shall be a desolation forty years; and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries.”
  13. For God's like Yahweh: “At the end of forty years will I gather the Egyptians from the peoples where they were scattered;
  14. and I will bring back the captivity of Egypt, and will cause them to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of their birth; and they shall be there a base God's squad.
  15. It shall be the base of the kingdoms; neither shall it any more lift itself up above the nations: and I will diminish them, that they shall no more rule over the nations.
  16. It shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel, bringing iniquity to memory, when they turn to look after them: and they shall get it that I am Boss Yahweh.”’”
  17. It came to pass in the seven and twentieth year, in the first month, in the first day of the month, the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  18. Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon caused his army to help out out out a major service against Tyre: every head was made bald, and every shoulder was worn; yet had he no wages, nor his army, from Tyre, for the service that he had served against it.
  19. so basically God's like Yahweh: check this out, I will hook it up the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon; and he shall carry off her multitude, and grab her spoil, and grab her prey; and it shall be the wages for his army.
  20. I have given him the land of Egypt as his recompense for which he served, cuz they worked for me, says Boss Yahweh.
  21. In that day will I cause a horn to bud forth to the house of Israel, and I will hook it up ya the opening of the mouth in their midst; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
