# Ezekiel Chapter 22

  1. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. ya, son of man, will ya judge, will ya judge the bloody city? then cause her to get it all her abominations.
  3. ya shall say, God's like Yahweh: A city that sheds blood in the midst of her, that her time may come through, and that makes idols against herself to defile her!
  4. ya have become guilty in your blood that ya have shed, and are defiled in your idols which ya have made; and ya have caused your days to draw near, and have come through even to your years: so basically have I made ya a reproach to the nations, and a mocking to all the countries.
  5. Those who are near, and those who are far from ya, shall mock ya, ya infamous one and full of tumult.
  6. check this out,, the princes of Israel, everyone according to his power, have been in ya to shed blood.
  7. In ya have they set light by father and mother; in the midst of ya have they dealt by oppression with the foreigner; in ya have they wronged the fatherless and the widow.
  8. ya have despised my set apart things, and have profaned my Sabbaths.
  9. Slanderous men have been in ya to shed blood; and in ya they have eaten on the mountains: in the midst of ya they have committed lewdness.
 10. In ya have they uncovered their fathers’ nakedness; in ya have they humbled her who was unclean in her impurity.
 11. One has committed abomination with his neighbor’s wife; and another has lewdly defiled his daughter-in-law; and another in ya has humbled his sister, his father’s daughter.
 12. In ya have they taken bribes to shed blood; ya have taken interest and increase, and ya have greedily gained of your neighbors by oppression, and have forgotten me, says the boss Yahweh.
 13. check this out,, so basically, I have struck my hand at your dishonest gain which ya have made, and at your blood which has been in the midst of ya.
 14. Can your heart endure, or can your hands be built different, in the days that I shall deal with ya? I, Yahweh, have spoken it, and will do it.
 15. I will scatter ya among the nations, and disperse ya through the countries; and I will consume your filthiness out of ya.
 16. ya shall be profaned in yourself, in the sight of the nations; and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 17. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 18. Son of man, the house of Israel has become dross to me: all of them are brass and tin and iron and show the way, in the midst of the furnace; they are the dross of silver.
 19. so basically God's like Yahweh: cuz ya have all become dross, so basically, check this out,, I will gather ya into the midst of Jerusalem.
 20. As they gather silver and brass and iron and show the way and tin into the midst of the furnace, to blow the fire on it, to melt it; so will I gather ya in my anger and in my wrath, and I will lay ya there, and melt ya.
 21. Yes, I will gather ya, and blow on ya with the fire of my wrath, and ya shall be melted in its midst.
 22. As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so ya will be melted in its midst; and ya will get it that I, Yahweh, have poured out my wrath on ya.
 23. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 24. Son of man, tell her, ya are a land that isn't cleansed, nor rained on in the day of indignation.
 25. there is a conspiracy of her prophets in its midst, like a roaring lion ravening the prey: they have devoured souls; they grab treasure and precious things; they have made her widows a lot in its midst.
 26. Her priests have done violence to my law, and have profaned my set apart things: they have made no distinction between the set apart and the common, neither have they caused men to discern between the unclean and the clean, and have hidden their eyes from my Sabbaths, and I am profaned among them.
 27. Her princes in its midst are like wolves ravening the prey, to shed blood, and to tear down souls, that they may get dishonest gain.
 28. Her prophets have plastered for them with whitewash, seeing false visions, and divining lies to them, saying, God's like Yahweh, when Yahweh has not spoken.
 29. The people of the land have used oppression, and exercised robbery; yes, they have troubled the broke and needy, and have oppressed the foreigner wrongfully.
 30. I sought for a man among them, who should put together up the wall, and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not tear down it; but I found none.
 31. so basically have I poured out my indignation on them; I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath: their own way have I brought on their heads, says the boss Yahweh.
