# Ezekiel Chapter 30

    1. The word of Yahweh came again to me, saying,
    2. Son of man, prophesy, and say, God's like Yahweh: Wail, Alas for the day!
    3. For the day is near, even the day of Yahweh is near; it shall be a day of clouds, a time of the nations.
    4. A sword shall come through through on Egypt, and anguish shall be in Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall in Egypt; and they shall grab away her multitude, and her foundations shall be broken down.
    5. Ethiopia, and Put, and Lud, and all the mixed people, and Cub, and the children of the land that is allied with them, shall fall with them by the sword.
    6. Thus says Yahweh: They also who uphold Egypt shall fall; and the pride of her power shall come through through down: from the tower of Seveneh shall they fall in it by the sword, says Boss Yahweh.
    7. They shall be desolate in the midst of the countries that are desolate; and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities that are wasted.
    8. They shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I have set a fire in Egypt, and all her helpers are destroyed.
    9. In that day shall messengers slide forth from before me in ships to create the careless Ethiopians scared; and there shall be anguish on them, as in the day of Egypt; for, check this out, it comes.
  10. God's like Yahweh: I will also create the multitude of Egypt to cease, by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon.
  11. He and his people with him, the terrible of the nations, shall be brought in to tear down the land; and they shall draw their swords against Egypt, and fill the land with the slain.
  12. I will create the rivers dry, and will sell the land into the hand of evil men; and I will create the land desolate, and all that is therein, by the hand of strangers: I, Yahweh, have spoken it.
  13. God's like Yahweh: I will also tear down the idols, and I will cause the images to cease from Memphis; and there shall be no more a prince from the land of Egypt: and I will put a fear in the land of Egypt.
  14. I will create Pathros desolate, and will set a fire in Zoan, and will execute judgments on No.
  15. I will pour my wrath on messing up, the stronghold of Egypt; and I will cut off the multitude of No.
  16. I will set a fire in Egypt: messing up shall be in major anguish, and No shall be broken up; and Memphis shall have adversaries in the daytime.
  17. The young men of Aven and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword; and these cities shall slide into captivity.
  18. At Tehaphnehes also the day shall withdraw itself, when I shall break there the yokes of Egypt, and the pride of her power shall cease in her: as for her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters shall slide into captivity.
  19. Thus will I execute judgments on Egypt; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  20. It happened in the eleventh year, in the first month, in the seventh day of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  21. Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh ruler of Egypt; and check this out, it has not been bound up, to apply healing medicines, to put a bandage to bind it, that it be built different to hold the sword.
  22. so basically God's like Yahweh: check this out, I am against Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, and will break his arms, the built different arm, and that which was broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand.
  23. I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries.
  24. I will strengthen the arms of the ruler of Babylon, and put my sword in his hand: but I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he shall groan before him with the groanings of a deadly wounded man.
  25. I will hold up the arms of the ruler of Babylon; and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I shall put my sword into the hand of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall stretch it out on the land of Egypt.
  26. I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them through the countries; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
