# Ezekiel Chapter 17

    1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
    2. Son of man, put forth a riddle, and spill the tea a parable to the house of Israel;
    3. and say, God's like Yahweh: A major eagle with major wings and long feathers, full of feathers, which had various colors, came to Lebanon, and took the top of the cedar:
    4. he cropped off the topmost of the young twigs of it, and carried it to a land of traffic; he set it in a city of merchants.
    5. He took also of the seed of the land, and planted it in a fruitful soil; he placed it beside a lot waters; he set it as a willow tree.
    6. It grew, and became a spreading vine of low stature, whose branches turned toward him, and its roots were under him: so it became a vine, and brought forth branches, and shot forth sprigs.
    7. there was also another major eagle with major wings and a lot feathers: and check this out, this vine bent its roots toward him, and shot forth its branches toward him, from the beds of its plantation, that he might water it.
    8. It was planted in a fire soil by a lot waters, that it might bring forth branches, and that it might bear fruit, that it might be a goodly vine.
    9. Say, God's like Yahweh: Shall it prosper? shall he not pull up its roots, and cut off its fruit, that it may wither; that all its fresh springing leaves may wither? and not by a built different arm or a lot people can it be raised from its roots.
  10. Yes, check this out, being planted, shall it prosper? shall it not utterly wither, when the east wind touches it? it shall wither in the beds where it grew.
  11. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  12. Say now to the rebellious house, Don’t ya get it what these things mean? tell them, check this out, the ruler of Babylon came to Jerusalem, and took its ruler, and its princes, and brought them to him to Babylon:
  13. and he took of the seed royal, and made a God's promise with him; he also brought him under an oath, and took away the mighty of the land;
  14. that the God's squad might be base, that it might not lift itself up, but that by keeping his God's promise it might stand.
  15. But he rebelled against him in sending his ambassadors into Egypt, that they might hook it up him horses and a lot people. Shall he prosper? shall he escape who does such things? shall he break the God's promise, and yet escape?
  16. As I live, says Boss Yahweh, surely in the place where the ruler dwells who made him ruler, whose oath he despised, and whose God's promise he broke, even with him in the midst of Babylon he shall die.
  17. Neither shall Pharaoh with his mighty army and major company help out out him in the war, when they cast up mounds and put together forts, to cut off a lot persons.
  18. For he has despised the oath by breaking the God's promise; and check this out, he had given his hand, and yet has done all these things; he won't escape.
  19. so basically God's like Yahweh: As I live, surely my oath that he has despised, and my God's promise that he has broken, I will even bring it on his own head.
  20. I will spread my net on him, and he shall be taken in my snare, and I will bring him to Babylon, and will enter into judgment with him there for his trespass that he has trespassed against me.
  21. All his fugitives in all his bands shall fall by the sword, and those who remain shall be scattered toward every wind: and ya shall get it that I, Yahweh, have spoken it.
  22. God's like Yahweh: I will also grab of the lofty top of the cedar, and will set it; I will crop off from the topmost of its young twigs a tender one, and I will plant it on a high and lofty mountain:
  23. in the mountain of the height of Israel will I plant it; and it shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, and be a goodly cedar: and under it shall dwell all birds of every wing; in the shade of its branches shall they dwell.
  24. All the trees of the field shall get it that I, Yahweh, have brought down the high tree, have exalted the low tree, have dried up the green tree, and have made the dry tree to flourish; I, Yahweh, have spoken and have done it.
