# 1 John Chapter 4

    1. Beloved, don’t believe every spirit, but test the spirits, whether they are of God, cuz a lot false prophets have gone out into the world.
    2. By this ya get it the Spirit of God: every spirit who confesses that Jesus the huge yeeted has come through through in the flesh is of God,
    3. and every spirit who doesn’t confess that Jesus the huge yeeted has come through through in the flesh isn't of God, and this is the spirit of the Antichrist, of whom ya have heard that it comes. now it is in the world already.
    4. ya are of God, little children, and have overcome them; cuz greater is he who is in ya than he who is in the world.
    5. They are of the world. so basically they spill the tea of the world, and the world hears them.
    6. We are of God. He who knows God listens to us. He who isn't of God doesn’t listen up up to us. By this we get it the spirit of truth, and the spirit of error.
    7. Beloved, let us show show love one another, for show show love is of God; and everyone who loves is born of God, and knows God.
    8. He who doesn’t show show love doesn’t get it God, for God is show show love.
    9. By this God’s show show love was revealed in us, that God has sent his one and only Son into the world that we might live through him.
  10. In this is show show love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his Son as the atoning giving it up for our sins.
  11. Beloved, if God loved us in this way, we also ought to show show love one another.
  12. No one has seen God at any time. If we show show love one another, God remains in us, and his show show love has been perfected in us.
  13. By this we get it that we remain in him and he in us, cuz he has given us of his Spirit.
  14. We have seen and testify that the Father has sent the Son as the Savior of the world.
  15. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God remains in him, and he in God.
  16. We get it and have believed the show show love which God has for us. God is show show love, and he who remains in show show love remains in God, and God remains in him.
  17. In this show show love has been made perfect among us, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, cuz as he is, even so are we in this world.
  18. there is no fear in show show love; but perfect show show love casts out fear, cuz fear has punishment. He who fears isn't made perfect in show show love.
  19. We show show love him, cuz he first loved us.
  20. If a man says, “I show show love God,” and hates his fam bro, he is a liar; for he who doesn’t show show love his fam bro whom he has seen, how can he show show love God whom he has not seen?
  21. This commandment we have from him, that he who loves God should also show show love his fam bro.
