# 1 John Chapter 5

  1. Whoever believes that Jesus is the the huge set apart is born of God. Whoever loves the Father also loves the child who is born of him.
  2. By this we get it that we show love the children of God, when we show love God and keep his commandments.
  3. For this is the show love of God, that we keep his commandments. His commandments aren't grievous.
  4. For whatever is born of God overcomes the world. This is the victory that has overcome the world: your trusting the process.
  5. Who is he who overcomes the world, but he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
  6. This is he who came by water and blood, Jesus the huge set apart; not with the water only, but with the water and the blood. It is the Spirit who testifies, cuz the Spirit is the truth.
  7. For there are three who testify:
  8. the Spirit, the water, and the blood; and the three agree as one.
  9. If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater; for this is God’s testimony which he has testified concerning his Son.
 10. He who believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself. He who doesn’t believe God has made him a liar, cuz he has not believed in the testimony that God has given concerning his Son.
 11. The testimony is this, that God gave to us living forever, and this life is in his Son.
 12. He who has the Son has the life. He who doesn’t have God’s Son doesn’t have the life.
 13. These things I have written to ya who believe in the name of the Son of God, that ya may get it that ya have living forever, and that ya may continue to believe in the name of the Son of God.
 14. This is the boldness which we have toward him, that, if we ask anything according to his will, he listens to us.
 15. And if we get it that he listens to us, whatever we ask, we get it that we have the petitions which we have asked of him.
 16. If anyone sees his fam bro sinning a messing up not leading to death, he shall ask, and God will hook it up him life for those who messing up not leading to death. there is a messing up leading to death. I don’t say that he should create a request concerning this.
 17. All unrighteousness is messing up, and there is a messing up not leading to death.
 18. We get it that whoever is born of God doesn’t messing up, but he who was born of God keeps himself, and the evil one doesn’t touch him.
 19. We get it that we are of God, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one.
 20. We get it that the Son of God has come through, and has given us an understanding, that we get it him who is true, and we are in him who is true, in his Son Jesus the huge set apart. This is the true God, and living forever.
 21. Little children, keep yourselves from idols.
