# John Chapter 15

  1. “I am the true vine, and my Father is the farmer.
  2. Every branch in me that doesn’t bear fruit, he takes away. Every branch that bears fruit, he prunes, that it may bear more fruit.
  3. ya are already pruned clean cuz of the word which I have spoken to ya.
  4. Remain in me, and I in ya. As the branch can’t bear fruit by itself, unless it remains in the vine, so neither can ya, unless ya remain in me.
  5. I am the vine. ya are the branches. He who remains in me, and I in him, the same bears much fruit, for apart from me ya can do nothing.
  6. If a man doesn’t remain in me, he is thrown out as a branch, and is withered; and they gather them, throw them into the fire, and they are burned.
  7. If ya remain in me, and my words remain in ya, ya will ask whatever ya desire, and it will be done for ya.
  8. “In this is my Father glorified, that ya bear much fruit; and so ya will be my disciples.
  9. Even as the Father has loved me, I also have loved ya. Remain in my show love.
 10. If ya keep my commandments, ya will remain in my show love; even as I have kept my Father’s commandments, and remain in his show love.
 11. I have spoken these things to ya, that my joy may remain in ya, and that your joy may be made full.
 12. “This is my commandment, that ya show love one another, even as I have loved ya.
 13. Greater show love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.
 14. ya are my friends, if ya do whatever I command ya.
 15. No longer do I call ya servants, for the helper doesn’t get it what his boss does. But I have called ya friends, for everything that I heard from my Father, I have made known to ya.
 16. ya didn’t choose me, but I chose ya, and appointed ya, that ya should slide and bear fruit, and that your fruit should remain; that whatever ya will ask of the Father in my name, he may hook it up it to ya.
 17. “I command these things to ya, that ya may show love one another.
 18. If the world hates ya, ya get it that it has hated me before it hated ya.
 19. If ya were of the world, the world would show love its own. But cuz ya aren't of the world, since I chose ya out of the world, so basically the world hates ya.
 20. Remember the word that I said to ya: ‘A helper isn't greater than his boss.’ If they persecuted me, they will also persecute ya. If they kept my word, they will keep yours also.
 21. But all these things will they do to ya for my name’s sake, cuz they don’t get it him who sent me.
 22. If I had not come through and spoken to them, they would not have had messing up; but now they have no excuse for their messing up.
 23. He who hates me, hates my Father also.
 24. If I hadn’t done among them the works which no one else did, they wouldn’t have had messing up. But now have they seen and also hated both me and my Father.
 25. But this happened so that the word may be fulfilled which was written in their law, ‘They hated me without a cause.’
 26. “When the Counselor has come through, whom I will send to ya from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will testify about me.
 27. ya will also testify, cuz ya have been with me from the beginning.
