# John Chapter 16

  1. “These things have I spoken to you, so that you wouldn’t be caused to stumble.
  2. They will put you out of the synagogues. Yes, the time comes that whoever kills you will think that he offers service to God.
  3. They will do these things cuz they have not known the Father, nor me.
  4. But I have told you these things, so that when the time comes, you may remember that I told you about them. I didn’t tell you these things from the beginning, cuz I was with you.
  5. But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, ‘Where are you going?’
  6. But cuz I have told you these things, feeling down has filled your heart.
  7. Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is to your advantage that I slide away, for if I don’t slide away, the Counselor won’t come through to you. But if I slide, I will send him to you.
  8. When he has come through, he will convict the world about messing up, about righteousness, and about judgment;
  9. about messing up, cuz they don’t believe in me;
 10. about righteousness, cuz I am going to my Father, and you won’t check it out me any more;
 11. about judgment, cuz the prince of this world has been judged.
 12. “I have yet a lot things to tell you, but you can’t bear them now.
 13. but like when he, the Spirit of truth, has come through, he will guide you into all truth, for he will not spill the tea from himself; but whatever he hears, he will spill the tea. He will declare to you things that are coming.
 14. He will glorify me, for he will grab from what is mine, and will declare it to you.
 15. All things whatever the Father has are mine; so basically I said that he takes of mine, and will declare it to you.
 16. A little while, and you will not check it out me. Again a little while, and you will check it out me.”
 17. Some of his disciples so basically said to one another, “What is this that he says to us, ‘A little while, and you won’t check it out me, and again a little while, and you will check it out me;’ and, ‘cuz I slide to the Father?’”
 18. They said so basically, “What is this that he says, ‘A little while?’ We don’t get it what he is saying.”
 19. so basically Jesus perceived that they wanted to ask him, and he said to them, “Do you inquire among yourselves concerning this, that I said, ‘A little while, and you won’t check it out me, and again a little while, and you will check it out me?’
 20. Most for sure I tell you, that you will weep and lament, but the world will be hyped. You will be sorrowful, but your feeling down will be turned into joy.
 21. A woman, when she gives birth, has feeling down, cuz her time has come through. But when she has delivered the child, she doesn’t remember the anguish any more, for the joy that a human being is born into the world.
 22. so basically you now have feeling down, but I will check it out you again, and your heart will be hyped, and no one will grab your joy away from you.
 23. “In that day you will ask me no questions. Most for sure I tell you, whatever you may ask of the Father in my name, he will hook it up it to you.
 24. Until now, you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be made full.
 25. I have spoken these things to you in figures of speech. But the time is coming when I will no more spill the tea to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father.
 26. In that day you will ask in my name; and I don’t say to you, that I will pray to the Father for you,
 27. for the Father himself loves you, cuz you have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from God.
 28. I came out from the Father, and have come through into the world. Again, I leave the world, and slide to the Father.”
 29. His disciples said to him, “check this out, now you spill the tea plainly, and spill the tea no figures of speech.
 30. now we get it that you get it all things, and don’t need for anyone to question you. By this we believe that you came forth from God.”
 31. Jesus answered them, “Do you now believe?
 32. check this out, the time is coming, yes, and has now come through, that you will be scattered, everyone to his own place, and you will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, cuz the Father is with me.
 33. I have told you these things, that in me you may have peace. In the world you have oppression; but cheer up! I have overcome the world.”
