# John Chapter 1

  1. at the start was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
  2. The same was at the start with God.
  3. All things were made through him. Without him was not anything made that has been made.
  4. In him was life, and the life was the light of men.
  5. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness hasn’t overcome it.
  6. there came a man, sent from God, whose name was John.
  7. The same came as a witness, that he might testify about the light, that all might believe through him.
  8. He was not the light, but was sent that he might testify about the light.
  9. The true light that enlightens everyone was coming into the world.
 10. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world didn’t recognize him.
 11. He came to his own, and those who were his own didn’t receive him.
 12. But as a lot as received him, to them he gave the right to become God’s children, to those who believe in his name:
 13. who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
 14. The Word became flesh, and lived among us. We checked out his glory, such glory as of the one and only Son of the Father, full of God's show love and truth.
 15. John testified about him. He cried out, saying, “This was he of whom I said, ‘He who comes after me has surpassed me, for he was before me.’”
 16. From his fullness we all received God's show love upon God's show love.
 17. For the law was given through Moses. God's show love and truth were realized through Jesus anointed one.
 18. No one has seen God at any time. The one and only Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him.
 19. This is John’s testimony, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, “Who are you?”
 20. He declared, and didn’t deny, but he declared, “I am not the anointed one.”
 21. They asked him, “What then? Are you Elijah?” He said, “I am not.” “Are you the God's messenger?” He answered, “No.”
 22. They said so basically to him, “Who are you? hook it up us an answer to grab back to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?”
 23. He said, “I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘create straight the way of the boss,’ as Isaiah the God's messenger said.”
 24. The ones who had been sent were from the Pharisees.
 25. They asked him, “Why then do you baptize, if you are not the anointed one, nor Elijah, nor the God's messenger?”
 26. John answered them, “I baptize in water, but among you stands one whom you don’t get it.
 27. He is the one who comes after me, who is preferred before me, whose sandal strap I’m not worthy to loosen.”
 28. These things were done in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
 29. The next day, he checked out Jesus coming to him, and said, “check this out, the Lamb of God, who takes away the messing up of the world!
 30. This is he of whom I said, ‘After me comes a man who is preferred before me, for he was before me.’
 31. I didn’t get it him, but for this reason I came baptizing in water: that he would be revealed to Israel.”
 32. John testified, saying, “I have seen the Spirit descending like a dove out of heaven, and it remained on him.
 33. I didn’t recognize him, but he who sent me to baptize in water, he said to me, ‘On whomever you will check it out the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he who baptizes in the set apart Spirit.’
 34. I have seen, and have testified that this is the Son of God.”
 35. Again, the next day, John was standing with two of his disciples,
 36. and he looked at Jesus as he walked, and said, “check this out, the Lamb of God!”
 37. The two disciples heard him spill the tea, and they followed Jesus.
 38. Jesus turned, and checked out them following, and said to them, “What are you looking for?” They said to him, “teacher” (which is to say, being interpreted, Teacher), “where are you staying?”
 39. He said to them, “come through, and check it out.” They came and checked out where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day. It was about the tenth hour.
 40. One of the two who heard John, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother.
 41. He first found his own brother, Simon, and said to him, “We have found the savior!” (which is, being interpreted, anointed one).
 42. He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him, and said, “You are Simon the son of Jonah. You shall be called Cephas” (which is by interpretation, Peter).
 43. On the next day, he was determined to slide out into Galilee, and he found Philip. Jesus said to him, “roll with me.”
 44. now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter.
 45. Philip found Nathanael, and said to him, “We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, wrote: Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.”
 46. Nathanael said to him, “Can any fire thing come through out of Nazareth?” Philip said to him, “come through and check it out.”
 47. Jesus checked out Nathanael coming to him, and said about him, “check this out, an Israelite facts, in whom is no deceit!”
 48. Nathanael said to him, “How do you get it me?” Jesus answered him, “Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I checked out you.”
 49. Nathanael answered him, “teacher, you are the Son of God! You are ruler of Israel!”
 50. Jesus answered him, “cuz I told you, ‘I checked out you underneath the fig tree,’ do you believe? You will check it out greater things than these!”
 51. He said to him, “Most for sure, I tell you, hereafter you will check it out heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.”
