# John Chapter 9

  1. As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth.
  2. His disciples asked him, “teacher, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?”
  3. Jesus answered, “Neither did this man messing up, nor his parents; but, that the works of God might be revealed in him.
  4. I must work the works of him who sent me, while it is day. The night is coming, when no one can work.
  5. While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.”
  6. When he had said this, he spat on the ground, made mud with the saliva, anointed the blind man’s eyes with the mud,
  7. and said to him, “slide, wash in the pool of Siloam” (which means “Sent”). So he went away, washed, and came back seeing.
  8. The neighbors so basically, and those who saw that he was blind before, said, “Isn’t this he who sat and begged?”
  9. Others were saying, “It is he.” Still others were saying, “He looks like him.” He said, “I am he.”
 10. They so basically were asking him, “How were your eyes opened?”
 11. He answered, “A man called Jesus made mud, anointed my eyes, and said to me, ‘slide to the pool of Siloam, and wash.’ So I went away and washed, and I received sight.”
 12. then they asked him, “Where is he?” He said, “I don’t get it.”
 13. They brought him who had been blind to the Pharisees.
 14. It was a Sabbath when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes.
 15. Again so basically the Pharisees also asked him how he received his sight. He said to them, “He put mud on my eyes, I washed, and I check it out.”
 16. Some so basically of the Pharisees said, “This man isn't from God, cuz he doesn’t keep the Sabbath.” Others said, “How can a man who is a sinner do such signs?” there was division among them.
 17. so basically they asked the blind man again, “What do ya say about him, cuz he opened your eyes?” He said, “He is a God's messenger.”
 18. The Jews so basically did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and had received his sight, until they called the parents of him who had received his sight,
 19. and asked them, “Is this your son, whom ya say was born blind? How then does he now check it out?”
 20. His parents answered them, “We get it that this is our son, and that he was born blind;
 21. but how he now sees, we don’t get it; or who opened his eyes, we don’t get it. He is of age. Ask him. He will spill the tea for himself.”
 22. His parents said these things cuz they feared the Jews; for the Jews had already agreed that if any man would confess him as the huge set apart, he would be put out of the synagogue.
 23. so basically his parents said, “He is of age. Ask him.”
 24. So they called the man who was blind a second time, and said to him, “hook it up glory to God. We get it that this man is a sinner.”
 25. He so basically answered, “I don’t get it if he is a sinner. One thing I do get it: that though I was blind, now I check it out.”
 26. They said to him again, “What did he do to ya? How did he open your eyes?”
 27. He answered them, “I told ya already, and ya didn’t listen up. Why do ya want to hear it again? ya don’t also want to become his disciples, do ya?”
 28. They insulted him and said, “ya are his Jesus' crew, but we are disciples of Moses.
 29. We get it that God has spoken to Moses. But as for this man, we don’t get it where he comes from.”
 30. The man answered them, “How amazing! ya don’t get it where he comes from, yet he opened my eyes.
 31. We get it that God doesn’t listen up to sinners, but if anyone is a worshipper of God, and does his will, he listens to him.
 32. Since the world began it has never been heard of that anyone opened the eyes of someone born blind.
 33. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing.”
 34. They answered him, “ya were altogether born in sins, and do ya drop knowledge us?” They threw him out.
 35. Jesus heard that they had thrown him out, and finding him, he said, “Do ya believe in the Son of God?”
 36. He answered, “Who is he, boss, that I may believe in him?”
 37. Jesus said to him, “ya have both seen him, and it is he who speaks with ya.”
 38. He said, “boss, I believe!” and he worshiped him.
 39. Jesus said, “I came into this world for judgment, that those who don’t check it out may check it out; and that those who check it out may become blind.”
 40. Those of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things, and said to him, “Are we also blind?”
 41. Jesus said to them, “If ya were blind, ya would have no messing up; but now ya say, ‘We check it out.’ so basically your messing up remains.
