# John Chapter 17

  1. Jesus said these things, and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said, “Father, the time has come through. Glorify your Son, that your Son may also glorify ya;
  2. even as ya gave him authority over all flesh, he will hook it up living forever to all whom ya have given him.
  3. This is living forever, that they should get it ya, the only true God, and him whom ya sent, Jesus the huge set apart.
  4. I glorified ya on the earth. I have accomplished the work which ya have given me to do.
  5. now, Father, glorify me with your own self with the glory which I had with ya before the world existed.
  6. I revealed your name to the people whom ya have given me out of the world. They were yours, and ya have given them to me. They have kept your word.
  7. now they have known that all things whatever ya have given me are from ya,
  8. for the words which ya have given me I have given to them, and they received them, and knew for sure that I came forth from ya, and they have believed that ya sent me.
  9. I pray for them. I don’t pray for the world, but for those whom ya have given me, for they are yours.
 10. All things that are mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them.
 11. I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I am coming to ya. set apart Father, keep them through your name which ya have given me, that they may be one, even as we are.
 12. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. Those whom ya have given me I have kept. None of them is lost, except the son of destruction, that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
 13. But now I come through to ya, and I say these things in the world, that they may have my joy made full in themselves.
 14. I have given them your word. The world hated them, cuz they aren't of the world, even as I am not of the world.
 15. I pray not that ya would grab them from the world, but that ya would keep them from the evil one.
 16. They aren't of the world even as I am not of the world.
 17. Sanctify them in your truth. Your word is truth.
 18. As ya sent me into the world, even so I have sent them into the world.
 19. For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth.
 20. Not for these only do I pray, but for those also who believe in me through their word,
 21. that they may all be one; even as ya, Father, are in me, and I in ya, that they also may be one in us; that the world may believe that ya sent me.
 22. The glory which ya have given me, I have given to them; that they may be one, even as we are one;
 23. I in them, and ya in me, that they may be perfected into one; that the world may get it that ya sent me, and loved them, even as ya loved me.
 24. Father, I desire that they also whom ya have given me be with me where I am, that they may check it out my glory, which ya have given me, for ya loved me before the foundation of the world.
 25. doing what's right Father, the world hasn’t known ya, but I knew ya; and these knew that ya sent me.
 26. I made known to them your name, and will create it known; that the show love with which ya loved me may be in them, and I in them.”
