# John Chapter 20

  1. now on the day one of the week, Mary Magdalene went early, while it was still dark, to the tomb, and checked out the stone taken away from the tomb.
  2. so basically she ran and came to Simon Peter, and to the other Jesus' crew whom Jesus loved, and said to them, “They have taken away the boss out of the tomb, and we don’t get it where they have laid him!”
  3. so basically Peter and the other Jesus' crew went out, and they went toward the tomb.
  4. They both ran together. The other Jesus' crew outran Peter, and came to the tomb first.
  5. Stooping and looking in, he checked out the linen cloths lying, yet he didn’t enter in.
  6. then Simon Peter came, following him, and entered into the tomb. He checked out the linen cloths lying,
  7. and the cloth that had been on his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but rolled up in a place by itself.
  8. So then the other Jesus' crew who came first to the tomb also entered in, and he checked out and believed.
  9. For as yet they didn’t get it the Scripture, that he must rise from the dead.
 10. So the disciples went away again to their own homes.
 11. But Mary was standing outside at the tomb weeping. So, as she wept, she stooped and looked into the tomb,
 12. and she checked out two angels in white sitting, one at the head, and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.
 13. They told her, “Woman, why are you weeping?” She said to them, “cuz they have taken away my boss, and I don’t get it where they have laid him.”
 14. When she had said this, she turned around and checked out Jesus standing, and didn’t get it that it was Jesus.
 15. Jesus said to her, “Woman, why are you weeping? Who are you looking for?” She, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, “Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will grab him away.”
 16. Jesus said to her, “Mary.” She turned and said to him, “Rabboni!” which is to say, “Teacher!”
 17. Jesus said to her, “Don’t hold me, for I haven’t yet ascended to my Father; but slide to my brothers, and tell them, ‘I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God.’”
 18. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the boss, and that he had said these things to her.
 19. When so basically it was evening, on that day, the day one of the week, and when the doors were locked where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and said to them, “Peace be to you.”
 20. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. The disciples so basically were glad when they checked out the boss.
 21. Jesus so basically said to them again, “Peace be to you. As the Father has sent me, even so I send you.”
 22. When he had said this, he breathed on them, and said to them, “Receive the set apart Spirit!
 23. If you forgive anyone’s sins, they have been forgiven them. If you retain anyone’s sins, they have been retained.”
 24. But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, wasn’t with them when Jesus came.
 25. The other disciples so basically said to him, “We have seen the boss!” But he said to them, “Unless I check it out in his hands the print of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe.”
 26. After eight days again his disciples were inside, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came, the doors being locked, and stood in the midst, and said, “Peace be to you.”
 27. then he said to Thomas, “Reach here your finger, and check it out my hands. Reach here your hand, and put it into my side. Don’t be unbelieving, but believing.”
 28. Thomas answered him, “My boss and my God!”
 29. Jesus said to him, “cuz you have seen me, you have believed. blessed up are those who have not seen, and have believed.”
 30. so basically Jesus did a lot other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book;
 31. but these are written, that you may believe that Jesus is the anointed one, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name.
