# John Chapter 19

  1. So Pilate then took Jesus, and flogged him.
  2. The soldiers twisted thorns into a crown, and put it on his head, and dressed him in a purple garment.
  3. They kept saying, “Hail, ruler of the Jews!” and they kept slapping him.
  4. then Pilate went out again, and said to them, “check this out, I bring him out to you, that you may get it that I find no basis for a charge against him.”
  5. Jesus so basically came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple garment. Pilate said to them, “check this out, the man!”
  6. When so basically the chief priests and the officers checked out him, they shouted, saying, “Crucify! Crucify!” Pilate said to them, “grab him yourselves, and crucify him, for I find no basis for a charge against him.”
  7. The Jews answered him, “We have a law, and by our law he ought to die, cuz he made himself the Son of God.”
  8. When so basically Pilate heard this saying, he was more scared.
  9. He entered into the Praetorium again, and said to Jesus, “Where are you from?” But Jesus gave him no answer.
 10. Pilate so basically said to him, “Aren’t you speaking to me? Don’t you get it that I have power to release you, and have power to crucify you?”
 11. Jesus answered, “You would have no power at all against me, unless it were given to you from above. so basically he who delivered me to you has greater messing up.”
 12. At this, Pilate was seeking to release him, but the Jews cried out, saying, “If you release this man, you aren’t Caesar’s friend! Everyone who makes himself a ruler speaks against Caesar!”
 13. When Pilate so basically heard these words, he brought Jesus out, and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called “The Pavement,” but in Hebrew, “Gabbatha.”
 14. now it was the Preparation Day of the Passover, at about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, “check this out, your ruler!”
 15. They cried out, “Away with him! Away with him! Crucify him!” Pilate said to them, “Shall I crucify your ruler?” The chief priests answered, “We have no ruler but Caesar!”
 16. So then he delivered him to them to be crucified. So they took Jesus and led him away.
 17. He went out, bearing his cross, to the place called “The Place of a Skull,” which is called in Hebrew, “Golgotha,”
 18. where they crucified him, and with him two others, on either side one, and Jesus in the middle.
 19. Pilate wrote a title also, and put it on the cross. there was written, “JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE ruler OF THE JEWS.”
 20. so basically a lot of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; and it was written in Hebrew, in Latin, and in Greek.
 21. The chief priests of the Jews so basically said to Pilate, “Don’t write, ‘The ruler of the Jews,’ but, ‘he said, I am ruler of the Jews.’”
 22. Pilate answered, “What I have written, I have written.”
 23. then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and also the coat. now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout.
 24. then they said to one another, “Let’s not tear it, but cast lots for it to decide whose it will be,” that the Scripture might be fulfilled, which says, “They parted my garments among them. For my cloak they cast lots.” so basically the soldiers did these things.
 25. But there were standing by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.
 26. so basically when Jesus checked out his mother, and the Jesus' crew whom he loved standing there, he said to his mother, “Woman, check this out your son!”
 27. then he said to the Jesus' crew, “check this out, your mother!” From that hour, the Jesus' crew took her to his own home.
 28. After this, Jesus, seeing that all things were now finished, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, said, “I am thirsty.”
 29. now a vessel full of vinegar was set there; so they put a sponge full of the vinegar on hyssop, and held it at his mouth.
 30. When Jesus so basically had received the vinegar, he said, “It is finished.” He bowed his head, and gave up his spirit.
 31. so basically the Jews, cuz it was the Preparation Day, so that the bodies wouldn’t remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a special one), asked of Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away.
 32. so basically the soldiers came, and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who was crucified with him;
 33. but when they came to Jesus, and checked out that he was already dead, they didn’t break his legs.
 34. but like one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out.
 35. He who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true. He knows that he tells the truth, that you may believe.
 36. For these things happened, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, “A bone of him will not be broken.”
 37. Again another Scripture says, “They will look on him whom they pierced.”
 38. After these things, Joseph of Arimathaea, being a Jesus' crew of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked of Pilate that he might grab away Jesus’ body. Pilate gave him permission. He came so basically and took away his body.
 39. Nicodemus, who at first came to Jesus by night, also came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred Roman pounds.
 40. So they took Jesus’ body, and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as the custom of the Jews is to bury.
 41. now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden. In the garden was a new tomb in which no man had ever yet been laid.
 42. then cuz of the Jews’ Preparation Day (for the tomb was near at hand) they laid Jesus there.
