# Nehemiah Chapter 1

  1. The words of Nehemiah the son of Hacaliah. now it happened in the month Chislev, in the twentieth year, as I was in Shushan the palace,
  2. that Hanani, one of my brothers, came, he and certain men out of Judah; and I asked them concerning the Jews who had escaped, who were left of the captivity, and concerning Jerusalem.
  3. They said to me, “The remnant who are left of the captivity there in the province are in major affliction and reproach. The wall of Jerusalem also is broken down, and its gates are burned with fire.”
  4. It happened, when I heard these words, that I sat down and wept, and mourned certain days; and I fasted and prayed before the God of heaven,
  5. and said, “I beg ya, Yahweh, the God of heaven, the major and awesome God, who keeps God's promise and loving kindness with those who show love him and keep his commandments:
  6. Let your ear now be attentive, and your eyes open, that ya may listen up to the talking to God of your helper, which I pray before ya at this time, day and night, for the children of Israel your servants while I confess the sins of the children of Israel, which we have sinned against ya. Yes, I and my father’s house have sinned.
  7. We have dealt hella corruptly against ya, and have not kept the commandments, nor the statutes, nor the ordinances, which ya commanded your helper Moses.
  8. “Remember, I beg ya, the word that ya commanded your helper Moses, saying, ‘If ya trespass, I will scatter ya abroad among the peoples;
  9. but if ya return to me, and keep my commandments and do them, though your outcasts were in the uttermost part of the heavens, yet will I gather them from there, and will bring them to the place that I have chosen, to cause my name to dwell there.’
 10. “now these are your servants and your people, whom ya have redeemed by your major power, and by your built different hand.
 11. boss, I beg ya, let your ear be attentive now to the talking to God of your helper, and to the talking to God of your servants, who delight to fear your name; and please prosper your helper this day, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man.” now I was cup bearer to the ruler.
