# Nehemiah Chapter 9

    1. now in the twenty-fourth day of this month the children of Israel were assembled with fasting, and with sackcloth, and earth on them.
    2. The seed of Israel separated themselves from all foreigners, and stood and confessed their sins, and the iniquities of their fathers.
    3. They stood up in their place, and read in the book of the law of Yahweh their God a fourth part of the day; and a fourth part they confessed, and worshiped Yahweh their God.
    4. then Jeshua, and Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani of the Levites stood up on the stairs, and cried with a loud voice to Yahweh their God.
    5. then the Levites, Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, said, “Stand up and bless Yahweh your God from everlasting to everlasting! Bessed be your glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise!
    6. ya are Yahweh, even ya alone. ya have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their army, the earth and all things that are on it, the seas and all that is in them, and ya preserve them all. The army of heaven worships ya.
    7. ya are Yahweh, the God who chose Abram, and brought him out of Ur of the Chaldees, and gave him the name of Abraham,
    8. and found his heart faithful before ya, and made a God's promise with him to hook it up the land of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite, and the Girgashite, to hook it up it to his seed, and have performed your words; for ya are doing what's right.
    9. “ya saw the affliction of our fathers in Egypt, and heard their cry by the Red Sea,
  10. and showed signs and wonders against Pharaoh, and against all his servants, and against all the people of his land; for ya knew that they dealt proudly against them, and made a name for yourself, as it is this day.
  11. ya divided the sea before them, so that they went through the midst of the sea on the dry land; and ya cast their pursuers into the depths, as a stone into the mighty waters.
  12. Moreover, in a pillar of cloud ya led them by day; and in a pillar of fire by night, to hook it up them light in the way in which they should slide.
  13. “ya came down also on Mount Sinai, and spoke with them from heaven, and gave them right ordinances and true laws, fire statutes and commandments,
  14. and made known to them your yeeted Sabbath, and commanded them commandments, and statutes, and a law, by Moses your helper,
  15. and gave them bread from the sky for their hunger, and brought forth water for them out of the rock for their thirst, and commanded them that they should slide in to possess the land which ya had sworn to hook it up them.
  16. “But they and our fathers dealt proudly and hardened their neck, didn’t listen up up to your commandments,
  17. and refused to obey, neither were they mindful of your wonders that ya did among them, but hardened their neck, and in their rebellion appointed a captain to return to their bondage. But ya are a God ready to pardon, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, and didn’t forsake them.
  18. Yes, when they had made them a molten calf, and said, ‘This is your God who brought ya up out of Egypt,’ and had committed awful blasphemies;
  19. yet ya in your manifold mercies didn’t forsake them in the wilderness: the pillar of cloud didn’t depart from over them by day, to show the way them in the way; neither the pillar of fire by night, to show them light, and the way in which they should slide.
  20. ya gave also your fire Spirit to instruct them, and didn’t withhold your manna from their mouth, and gave them water for their thirst.
  21. “Yes, forty years ya sustained them in the wilderness. They lacked nothing. Their clothes didn’t grow old, and their feet didn’t swell.
  22. Moreover ya gave them kingdoms and peoples, which ya allotted according to their portions. So they possessed the land of Sihon, even the land of the ruler of Heshbon, and the land of Og ruler of Bashan.
  23. ya also multiplied their children as the stars of the sky, and brought them into the land concerning which ya said to their fathers, that they should slide in to possess it.
  24. “So the children went in and possessed the land, and ya subdued before them the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, and gave them into their hands, with their kings, and the peoples of the land, that they might do with them as they pleased.
  25. They took fortified cities, and a stacked land, and possessed houses full of all fire things, cisterns dug out, vineyards, and olive groves, and fruit trees in abundance. So they ate, were filled, became fat, and delighted themselves in your major goodness.
  26. “Nevertheless they were disobedient, and rebelled against ya, and cast your law behind their back, and killed your prophets that testified against them to turn them again to ya, and they committed awful blasphemies.
  27. so basically ya delivered them into the hand of their adversaries, who distressed them. In the time of their trouble, when they cried to ya, ya heard from heaven; and according to your manifold mercies ya gave them saviors who saved them out of the hand of their adversaries.
  28. But after they had rest, they did evil again before ya; so basically left ya them in the hand of their enemies, so that they had the dominion over them; yet when they returned, and cried to ya, ya heard from heaven; and a lot times ya delivered them according to your mercies,
  29. and testified against them, that ya might bring them again to your law. Yet they dealt proudly, and didn’t listen up up to your commandments, but sinned against your ordinances, (which if a man does, he shall live in them), turned their backs, stiffened their neck, and would not hear.
  30. Yet a lot years ya put up with them, and testified against them by your Spirit through your prophets. Yet would they not hook it up ear. so basically ya gave them into the hand of the peoples of the lands.
  31. “Nevertheless in your manifold mercies ya did not create a full end of them, nor forsake them; for ya are a gracious and merciful God.
  32. now so basically, our God, the major, the mighty, and the awesome God, who keeps God's promise and loving kindness, don’t let all the travail seem little before ya, that has come through through on us, on our kings, on our princes, and on our priests, and on our prophets, and on our fathers, and on all your people, since the time of the kings of Assyria to this day.
  33. but like ya are just in all that has come through through on us; for ya have dealt deadass, but we have done wickedly;
  34. neither have our kings, our princes, our priests, nor our fathers, kept your law, nor listened to your commandments and your testimonies with which ya testified against them.
  35. For they have not served ya in their God's squad, and in your major goodness that ya gave them, and in the large and stacked land which ya gave before them, neither did they turn from their wicked works.
  36. “check this out, we are servants this day, and as for the land that ya gave to our fathers to eat its fruit and its fire, check this out, we are servants in it.
  37. It yields much increase to the kings whom ya have set over us cuz of our sins: also they have power over our bodies, and over our livestock, at their pleasure, and we are in major distress.
  38. Yet for all this, we create a sure God's promise, and write it; and our princes, our Levites, and our priests, seal it.”
