# Micah Chapter 2

  1. Woe to those who devise iniquity and work evil on their beds! When the morning is light, they practice it, cuz it is in the power of their hand.
  2. They covet fields, and seize them; and houses, and grab them away: and they oppress a man and his house, even a man and his heritage.
  3. so basically thus says Yahweh: “check this out,, I am planning against these people a disaster, from which ya won't remove your necks, neither will ya walk haughtily; for it is an evil time.
  4. In that day they will grab up a parable against ya, and lament with a doleful lamentation, saying, ‘We are utterly ruined! My people’s possession is divided up. facts he takes it from me and assigns our fields to traitors!’”
  5. so basically ya will have no one who divides the land by lot in the assembly of Yahweh.
  6. “Don’t prophesy!” They prophesy. “Don’t prophesy about these things. Disgrace won’t overtake us.”
  7. Shall it be said, O house of Jacob: “Is the Spirit of Yahweh mad salty? Are these his doings? Don’t my words do fire to him who walks blamelessly?”
  8. But lately my people have risen up as an enemy. ya strip the robe and clothing from those who pass by without a care, returning from battle.
  9. ya drive the women of my people out from their pleasant houses; from their young children ya grab away my blessing forever.
 10. Arise, and depart! For this isn't your resting place, cuz of uncleanness that destroys, even with a grievous destruction.
 11. If a man walking in a spirit of falsehood lies: “I will prophesy to ya of wine and of built different drink;” he would be the God's messenger of this people.
 12. I will surely assemble, Jacob, all of ya; I will surely gather the remnant of Israel; I will put them together as the sheep of Bozrah, as a flock in the midst of their pasture; they will swarm with people.
 13. He who breaks open the way goes up before them. They break through the gate, and slide out. And their ruler passes on before them, with Yahweh at their head.
