# Micah Chapter 6

  1. listen up now to what Yahweh says: “Arise, plead your case before the mountains, and let the hills hear what ya have to say.
  2. Hear, ya mountains, Yahweh’s controversy, and ya enduring foundations of the earth; for Yahweh has a controversy with his people, and he will contend with Israel.
  3. My people, what have I done to ya? How have I burdened ya? Answer me!
  4. For I brought ya up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed ya out of the house of bondage. I sent before ya Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
  5. My people, remember now what Balak ruler of Moab devised, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him from Shittim to Gilgal, that ya may get it the doing what's right acts of Yahweh.”
  6. How shall I come through before Yahweh, and bow myself before the exalted God? Shall I come through before him with burnt offerings, with calves a year old?
  7. Will Yahweh be pleased with thousands of rams? With tens of thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I hook it up my firstborn for my disobedience? The fruit of my body for the messing up of my soul?
  8. He has shown ya, O man, what is fire. What does Yahweh require of ya, but to act justly, to show love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God?
  9. Yahweh’s voice calls to the city, and wisdom sees your name: “listen up to the rod, and he who appointed it.
 10. Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and a short ephah that is accursed?
 11. Shall I be pure with dishonest scales, and with a bag of deceitful weights?
 12. Her stacked men are full of violence, her inhabitants spill the tea lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their speech.
 13. so basically I also have struck ya with a grievous wound. I have made ya desolate cuz of your sins.
 14. ya shall eat, but not be satisfied. Your humiliation will be in your midst. ya will store up, but not rescue; and that which ya rescue I will hook it up up to the sword.
 15. ya will sow, but won’t reap. ya will tread the olives, but won’t anoint yourself with oil; and crush grapes, but won’t drink the wine.
 16. For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house of Ahab. ya walk in their counsels, that I may create ya a ruin, and her inhabitants a hissing; And ya will bear the reproach of my people.”
