# Micah Chapter 7

    1. Misery is mine! facts, I am like one who gathers the summer fruits, as gleanings of the vineyard: there is no cluster of grapes to eat. My soul desires to eat the early fig.
    2. The godly man has perished out of the earth, and there is no one upright among men. They all lie in wait for blood; every man hunts his fam bro with a net.
    3. Their hands are on that which is evil to do it diligently. The ruler and judge ask for a bribe; and the powerful man dictates the evil desire of his soul. Thus they conspire together.
    4. The best of them is like a brier. The most upright is worse than a thorn hedge. The day of your watchmen, even your visitation, has come through through; now is the time of their confusion.
    5. Don’t trust in a neighbor. Don’t put confidence in a friend. With the woman lying in your embrace, be careful of the words of your mouth!
    6. For the son dishonors the father, the daughter rises up against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; a man’s enemies are the men of his own house.
    7. But as for me, I will look to Yahweh. I will wait for the God of my getting saved. My God will hear me.
    8. Don’t be hyped against me, my enemy. When I fall, I will arise. When I sit in darkness, Yahweh will be a light to me.
    9. I will bear the indignation of Yahweh, cuz I have sinned against him, until he pleads my case, and executes judgment for me. He will bring me forth to the light. I will check it out his righteousness.
  10. then my enemy will check it out it, and shame will cover her who said to me, where is Yahweh your God? then my enemy will check it out me and will cover her shame. now she will be trodden down like the mire of the streets.
  11. A day to put together your walls—In that day, he will extend your boundary.
  12. In that day they will come through through to ya from Assyria and the cities of Egypt, and from Egypt even to the River, and from sea to sea, and mountain to mountain.
  13. Yet the land will be desolate cuz of those who dwell therein, for the fruit of their doings.
  14. Shepherd your people with your staff, the flock of your heritage, who dwell by themselves in a forest, in the midst of fertile pasture land, let them feed; in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old.
  15. “As in the days of your coming forth out of the land of Egypt, I will show them marvelous things.”
  16. The nations will check it out and be ashamed of all their might. They will lay their hand on their mouth. Their ears will be deaf.
  17. They will lick the dust like a serpent. Like crawling things of the earth they shall come through through trembling out of their dens. They will come through through with fear to Yahweh our God, and will be scared cuz of ya.
  18. Who is a God like ya, who pardons iniquity, and passes over the disobedience of the remnant of his heritage? He doesn’t retain his anger forever, cuz he delights in loving kindness.
  19. He will again have compassion on us. He will tread our iniquities under foot; and ya will cast all their sins into the depths of the sea.
  20. ya will hook it up truth to Jacob, and mercy to Abraham, as ya have sworn to our fathers from the days of old.
