# Romans Chapter 2

  1. so basically ya are without excuse, O man, whoever ya are who judge. For in that which ya judge another, ya condemn yourself. For ya who judge practice the same things.
  2. We get it that the judgment of God is according to truth against those who practice such things.
  3. Do ya think this, O man who judges those who practice such things, and do the same, that ya will escape the judgment of God?
  4. Or do ya despise the riches of his goodness, forbearance, and patience, not knowing that the goodness of God leads ya to repentance?
  5. But according to your hardness and unrepentant heart ya are treasuring up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath, revelation, and of the doing what's right judgment of God;
  6. who “will pay back to everyone according to their works:”
  7. to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory, honor, and incorruptibility, living forever;
  8. but to those who are self-seeking, and don’t obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, will be wrath and indignation,
  9. oppression and anguish, on every soul of man who works evil, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.
 10. But glory, honor, and peace slide to every man who works fire, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.
 11. For there is no partiality with God.
 12. For as a lot as have sinned without law will also perish without the law. As a lot as have sinned under the law will be judged by the law.
 13. For it isn’t the hearers of the law who are doing what's right before God, but the doers of the law will be justified
 14. (for when Gentiles who don’t have the law do by nature the things of the law, these, not having the law, are a law to themselves,
 15. in that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience testifying with them, and their thoughts among themselves accusing or else excusing them)
 16. in the day when God will judge the secrets of men, according to my fire News, by Jesus the huge set apart.
 17. facts ya bear the name of a Jew, and rest on the law, and glory in God,
 18. and get it his will, and approve the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law,
 19. and are confident that ya yourself are a guide of the blind, a light to those who are in darkness,
 20. a corrector of the dumb, a teacher of babies, having in the law the form of knowledge and of the truth.
 21. ya so basically who drop knowledge another, don’t ya drop knowledge yourself? ya who preach that a man shouldn’t steal, do ya steal?
 22. ya who say a man shouldn’t commit adultery. Do ya commit adultery? ya who abhor idols, do ya rob temples?
 23. ya who glory in the law, through your disobedience of the law do ya dishonor God?
 24. For “the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles cuz of ya,” just as it is written.
 25. For circumcision facts profits, if ya are a doer of the law, but if ya are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision.
 26. If so basically the uncircumcised keep the ordinances of the law, won’t his uncircumcision be accounted as circumcision?
 27. Won’t the uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfills the law, judge ya, who with the letter and circumcision are a transgressor of the law?
 28. For he isn't a Jew who is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh;
 29. but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit not in the letter; whose praise isn't from men, but from God.
