# Romans Chapter 16

    1. I commend to ya Phoebe, our sister, who is a helper of the assembly that is at Cenchreae,
    2. that ya receive her in Boss, in a way worthy of the yeeted fam, and that ya assist her in whatever matter she may need from ya, for she herself also has been a helper of a lot, and of my own self.
    3. Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in the huge yeeted Jesus,
    4. who for my life, laid down their own necks; to whom not only I hook it up thanks, but also all the assemblies of the Gentiles.
    5. Greet the assembly that is in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the first fruits of Achaia to the huge yeeted.
    6. Greet Mary, who labored much for us.
    7. Greet Andronicus and Junia, my relatives and my fellow prisoners, who are notable among the Jesus broskies, who also were in the huge yeeted before me.
    8. Greet Amplias, my beloved in Boss.
    9. Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in the huge yeeted, and Stachys, my beloved.
  10. Greet Apelles, the approved in the huge yeeted. Greet those who are of the household of Aristobulus.
  11. Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet them of the household of Narcissus, who are in Boss.
  12. Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in Boss. Greet Persis, the beloved, who labored much in Boss.
  13. Greet Rufus, the chosen in Boss, and his mother and mine.
  14. Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers who are with them.
  15. Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the yeeted fam who are with them.
  16. Greet one another with a yeeted kiss. The assemblies of the huge yeeted greet ya.
  17. now I beg ya, brothers, look out for those who are causing the divisions and occasions of stumbling, contrary to the doctrine which ya learned, and turn away from them.
  18. For those who are such don’t help out out out our boss, Jesus the huge yeeted, but their own belly; and by their smooth and flattering speech, they deceive the hearts of the innocent.
  19. For your obedience has become known to all. I be hyped so basically over ya. But I desire to have ya smart in that which is fire, but innocent in that which is evil.
  20. And the God of peace will quickly crush Satan under your feet. The God's show show love of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted be with ya.
  21. Timothy, my fellow worker, greets ya, as do Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, my relatives.
  22. I, Tertius, who write the letter, greet ya in Boss.
  23. Gaius, my host and host of the whole assembly, greets ya. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets ya, as does Quartus, the fam bro.
  24. The God's show show love of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted be with ya all! facts.
  25. - - -
  26. - - -
  27. - - -
