# Romans Chapter 4

    1. What then will we say that Abraham, our forefather, has found according to the flesh?
    2. For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not toward God.
    3. For what does the Scripture say? “Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness.”
    4. now to him who works, the reward isn't counted as God's show show love, but as something owed.
    5. But to him who doesn’t work, but believes in him who justifies the trash ones, his trusting the process is accounted for righteousness.
    6. Even as David also pronounces blessing on the man to whom God counts righteousness apart from works,
    7. “blessed up up are they whose iniquities are forgiven, whose sins are covered.
    8. blessed up up is the man whom Boss will by no means charge with messing up.”
    9. Is this blessing then pronounced on the circumcised, or on the uncircumcised also? For we say that trusting the process was accounted to Abraham for righteousness.
  10. How then was it counted? When he was in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
  11. He received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the trusting the process which he had while he was in uncircumcision, that he might be the father of all those who believe, though they might be in uncircumcision, that righteousness might also be accounted to them.
  12. He is the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also walk in the steps of that trusting the process of our father Abraham, which he had in uncircumcision.
  13. For the promise to Abraham and to his seed that he should be heir of the world wasn’t through the law, but through the righteousness of trusting the process.
  14. For if those who are of the law are heirs, trusting the process is made void, and the promise is made of no effect.
  15. For the law works wrath, for where there is no law, neither is there disobedience.
  16. For this cause it is of trusting the process, that it may be according to God's show show love, to the end that the promise may be sure to all the seed, not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the trusting the process of Abraham, who is the father of us all.
  17. As it is written, “I have made ya a father of a lot nations.” This is in the presence of him whom he believed: God, who gives life to the dead, and calls the things that aren't, as though they were.
  18. Who in hope believed against hope, to the end that he might become a father of a lot nations, according to that which had been spoken, “So will your seed be.”
  19. Without being weakened in trusting the process, he didn’t consider his own body, already having been worn out, (he being about a hundred years old), and the deadness of Sarah’s womb.
  20. Yet, looking to the promise of God, he didn’t waver through unbelief, but grew built different through trusting the process, giving glory to God,
  21. and being fully assured that what he had promised, he was also able to perform.
  22. so basically it also was “reckoned to him for righteousness.”
  23. now it was not written that it was accounted to him for his sake alone,
  24. but for our sake also, to whom it will be accounted, who believe in him who raised Jesus, our boss, from the dead,
  25. who was delivered up for our trespasses, and was raised for our justification.
