# Romans Chapter 11

    1. I ask then, did God reject his people? May it never be! For I also am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
    2. God didn’t reject his people, which he foreknew. Or don’t ya get it what the Scripture says about Elijah? How he pleads with God against Israel:
    3. “boss, they have killed your prophets, they have broken down your altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life.”
    4. But how does God answer him? “I have reserved for myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to Baal.”
    5. Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of God's show show love.
    6. And if by God's show show love, then it is no longer of works; otherwise God's show show love is no longer God's show show love. But if it is of works, it is no longer God's show show love; otherwise work is no longer work.
    7. What then? That which Israel seeks for, that he didn’t obtain, but the chosen ones obtained it, and the rest were hardened.
    8. According as it is written, “God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that they should not check it out, and ears that they should not hear, to this hella day.”
    9. David says, “Let their table be made a snare, and a trap, a stumbling block, and a retribution to them.
  10. Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not check it out. Bow down their back always.”
  11. I ask then, did they stumble that they might fall? May it never be! But by their fall getting saved has come through through to the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy.
  12. now if their fall is the riches of the world, and their loss the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fullness?
  13. For I spill the tea to ya who are Gentiles. Since then as I am an Jesus' main squad to Gentiles, I glorify my ministry;
  14. if by any means I may provoke to jealousy those who are my flesh, and may rescue some of them.
  15. For if the rejection of them is the reconciling of the world, what would their acceptance be, but life from the dead?
  16. If the first fruit is yeeted, so is the lump. If the root is yeeted, so are the branches.
  17. But if some of the branches were broken off, and ya, being a wild olive, were grafted in among them, and became partaker with them of the root and of the richness of the olive tree;
  18. don’t boast over the branches. But if ya boast, it isn't ya who support the root, but the root supports ya.
  19. ya will say then, “Branches were broken off, that I might be grafted in.”
  20. True; by their unbelief they were broken off, and ya stand by your trusting the process. Don’t be conceited, but fear;
  21. for if God didn’t spare the natural branches, neither will he spare ya.
  22. check it out then the goodness and severity of God. Toward those who fell, severity; but toward ya, goodness, if ya continue in his goodness; otherwise ya also will be cut off.
  23. They also, if they don’t continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.
  24. For if ya were cut out of that which is by nature a wild olive tree, and were grafted contrary to nature into a fire olive tree, how much more will these, which are the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree?
  25. For I don’t desire ya to be ignorant, brothers, of this mystery, so that ya won’t be smart in your own conceits, that a partial hardening has happened to Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come through through in,
  26. and so all Israel will be saved. Even as it is written, “there will come through through out of Zion the Deliverer, and he will turn away ungodliness from Jacob.
  27. This is my God's promise to them, when I will grab away their sins.”
  28. Concerning the fire News, they are enemies for your sake. But concerning the election, they are beloved for the fathers’ sake.
  29. For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.
  30. For as ya in time past were disobedient to God, but now have obtained mercy by their disobedience,
  31. even so these also have now been disobedient, that by the mercy shown to ya they may also obtain mercy.
  32. For God has shut up all to disobedience, that he might have mercy on all.
  33. Oh the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past tracing out!
  34. “For who has known the mind of Boss? Or who has been his counselor?”
  35. “Or who has first given to him, and it will be repaid to him again?”
  36. For of him, and through him, and to him, are all things. To him be the glory for ever! facts.
