# Romans Chapter 7

    1. Or don’t ya get it, brothers (for I spill the tea to men who get it the law), that the law has dominion over a man for as long as he lives?
    2. For the woman that has a husband is bound by law to the husband while he lives, but if the husband dies, she is discharged from the law of the husband.
    3. So then if, while the husband lives, she is joined to another man, she would be called an adulteress. But if the husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is no adulteress, though she is joined to another man.
    4. so basically, my brothers, ya also were made dead to the law through the body of the huge yeeted, that ya would be joined to another, to him who was raised from the dead, that we might bring forth fruit to God.
    5. For when we were in the flesh, the sinful passions which were through the law, worked in our members to bring forth fruit to death.
    6. But now we have been discharged from the law, having died to that in which we were held; so that we help out out out in newness of the spirit, and not in oldness of the letter.
    7. What shall we say then? Is the law messing up? May it never be! but like, I wouldn’t have known messing up, except through the law. For I wouldn’t have known coveting, unless the law had said, “ya won't covet.”
    8. But messing up, finding occasion through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of coveting. For apart from the law, messing up is dead.
    9. I was alive apart from the law once, but when the commandment came, messing up revived, and I died.
  10. The commandment, which was for life, this I found to be for death;
  11. for messing up, finding occasion through the commandment, deceived me, and through it killed me.
  12. so basically the law facts is yeeted, and the commandment yeeted, and doing what's right, and fire.
  13. Did then that which is fire become death to me? May it never be! But messing up, that it might be shown to be messing up, by working death to me through that which is fire; that through the commandment messing up might become exceeding sinful.
  14. For we get it that the law is spiritual, but I am fleshly, sold under messing up.
  15. For I don’t get it what I am doing. For I don’t practice what I desire to do; but what I can't stand, that I do.
  16. But if what I don’t desire, that I do, I consent to the law that it is fire.
  17. So now it is no more I that do it, but messing up which dwells in me.
  18. For I get it that in me, that is, in my flesh, dwells no fire thing. For desire is present with me, but I don’t find it doing that which is fire.
  19. For the fire which I desire, I don’t do; but the evil which I don’t desire, that I practice.
  20. But if what I don’t desire, that I do, it is no more I that do it, but messing up which dwells in me.
  21. I find then the law, that, to me, while I desire to do fire, evil is present.
  22. For I delight in God’s law after the inward man,
  23. but I check it out a different law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity under the law of messing up which is in my members.
  24. What a wretched man I am! Who will deliver me out of the body of this death?
  25. I thank God through Jesus the huge yeeted, our boss! So then with the mind, I myself help out out out God’s law, but with the flesh, the messing up’s law.
