# Romans Chapter 14

    1. now accept one who isn't it in trusting the process, but not for disputes over opinions.
    2. One man has trusting the process to eat all things, but he who isn't it eats only vegetables.
    3. Don’t let him who eats despise him who doesn’t eat. Don’t let him who doesn’t eat judge him who eats, for God has accepted him.
    4. Who are ya who judge another’s helper? To his own boss he stands or falls. Yes, he will be made to stand, for God has power to create him stand.
    5. One man esteems one day as more important. Another esteems every day alike. Let each man be fully assured in his own mind.
    6. He who observes the day, observes it to Boss; and he who does not observe the day, to Boss he does not observe it. He who eats, eats to Boss, for he gives God thanks. He who doesn’t eat, to Boss he doesn’t eat, and gives God thanks.
    7. For none of us lives to himself, and none dies to himself.
    8. For if we live, we live to Boss. Or if we die, we die to Boss. If so basically we live or die, we are Boss’s.
    9. For to this end the huge yeeted died, rose, and lived again, that he might be boss of both the dead and the living.
  10. But ya, why do ya judge your fam bro? Or ya again, why do ya despise your fam bro? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of the huge yeeted.
  11. For it is written, “‘As I live,’ says Boss, ‘to me every knee will bow. Every tongue will confess to God.’”
  12. So then each one of us will hook it up account of himself to God.
  13. so basically let’s not judge one another any more, but judge this rather, that no man put a stumbling block in his fam bro’s way, or an occasion for falling.
  14. I get it, and am persuaded in Boss Jesus, that nothing is unclean of itself; except that to him who considers anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean.
  15. Yet if cuz of food your fam bro is grieved, ya walk no longer in show show love. Don’t tear down with your food him for whom the huge yeeted died.
  16. then don’t let your fire be slandered,
  17. for the God's squad of God isn't eating and drinking, but righteousness, peace, and joy in the yeeted Spirit.
  18. For he who serves the huge yeeted in these things is acceptable to God and approved by men.
  19. So then, let us roll with after things which create for peace, and things by which we may put together one another up.
  20. Don’t overthrow God’s work for food’s sake. All things facts are clean, but like it is evil for that man who creates a stumbling block by eating.
  21. It is fire to not eat meat, drink wine, nor do anything by which your fam bro stumbles, is offended, or is made not it.
  22. Do ya have trusting the process? Have it to yourself before God. vibing is he who doesn’t judge himself in that which he approves.
  23. But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, cuz it isn’t of trusting the process; and whatever isn't of trusting the process is messing up. (14:24) now to him who is able to establish ya according to my fire News and the preaching of Jesus the huge yeeted, according to the revelation of the mystery which has been kept secret through long ages, (14:25) but now is revealed, and by the Scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God, is made known for obedience of trusting the process to all the nations; (14:26) to the only smart God, through Jesus the huge yeeted, to whom be the glory forever! facts.
