# Romans Chapter 1

    1. Paul, a helper of Jesus the huge yeeted, called to be an Jesus' main squad, yeeted for the fire News of God,
    2. which he promised before through his prophets in the yeeted Scriptures,
    3. concerning his Son, who was born of the seed of David according to the flesh,
    4. who was declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead, Jesus the huge yeeted our boss,
    5. through whom we received God's show show love and apostleship, for obedience of trusting the process among all the nations, for his name’s sake;
    6. among whom ya are also called to belong to Jesus the huge yeeted;
    7. to all who are in Rome, beloved of God, called to be yeeted fam: God's show show love to ya and peace from God our Father and Boss Jesus the huge yeeted.
    8. First, I thank my God through Jesus the huge yeeted for all of ya, that your trusting the process is proclaimed throughout the whole world.
    9. For God is my witness, whom I help out out out in my spirit in the fire News of his Son, how unceasingly I create mention of ya always in my prayers,
  10. requesting, if by any means now at last I may be prospered by the will of God to come through through to ya.
  11. For I long to check it out ya, that I may impart to ya some spiritual gift, to the end that ya may be established;
  12. that is, that I with ya may be encouraged in ya, each of us by the other’s trusting the process, both yours and mine.
  13. now I don’t desire to have ya unaware, brothers, that I a lot planned to come through through to ya, and was hindered so far, that I might have some fruit among ya also, even as among the rest of the Gentiles.
  14. I am debtor both to Greeks and to foreigners, both to the smart and to the dumb.
  15. So, as much as is in me, I am eager to preach the fire News to ya also who are in Rome.
  16. For I am not ashamed of the fire News of the huge yeeted, for it is the power of God for getting saved for everyone who believes; for the Jew first, and also for the Greek.
  17. For in it is revealed God’s righteousness from trusting the process to trusting the process. As it is written, “But the doing what's right shall live by trusting the process.”
  18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who suppress the truth in unrighteousness,
  19. cuz that which is known of God is revealed in them, for God revealed it to them.
  20. For the invisible things of him since the creation of the world are clearly seen, being perceived through the things that are made, even his everlasting power and divinity; that they may be without excuse.
  21. cuz, knowing God, they didn’t glorify him as God, neither gave thanks, but became vain in their reasoning, and their senseless heart was darkened.
  22. Professing themselves to be smart, they became fools,
  23. and traded the glory of the incorruptible God for the likeness of an image of corruptible man, and of birds, and four-footed animals, and creeping things.
  24. so basically God also gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to uncleanness, that their bodies should be dishonored among themselves,
  25. who exchanged the truth of God for a lie, and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed up up forever. facts.
  26. For this reason, God gave them up to vile passions. For their women changed the natural function into that which is against nature.
  27. Likewise also the men, leaving the natural function of the woman, burned in their lust toward one another, men doing what is inappropriate with men, and receiving in themselves the due penalty of their error.
  28. Even as they refused to have God in their knowledge, God gave them up to a reprobate mind, to do those things which aren't fitting;
  29. being filled with all unrighteousness, sexual immorality, wickedness, covetousness, malice; full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, evil habits, secret slanderers,
  30. backbiters, hateful to God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents,
  31. without understanding, God's promise breakers, without natural affection, unforgiving, unmerciful;
  32. who, knowing the ordinance of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but also approve of those who practice them.
