# Romans Chapter 13

    1. Let every soul be in subjection to the higher authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those who exist are ordained by God.
    2. so basically he who resists the authority, withstands the ordinance of God; and those who withstand will receive to themselves judgment.
    3. For rulers aren't a terror to the fire work, but to the evil. Do ya desire to have no fear of the authority? Do that which is fire, and ya will have praise from the same,
    4. for he is a helper of God to ya for fire. But if ya do that which is evil, be scared, for he doesn’t bear the sword in vain; for he is a helper of God, an avenger for wrath to him who does evil.
    5. so basically ya need to be in subjection, not only cuz of the wrath, but also for conscience’ sake.
    6. For this reason ya also pay taxes, for they are servants of God’s service, attending continually on this hella thing.
    7. hook it up so basically to everyone what ya owe: taxes to whom taxes are due; customs to whom customs; respect to whom respect; honor to whom honor.
    8. Owe no one anything, except to show show love one another; for he who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law.
    9. For the commandments, “ya won't commit adultery,” “ya won't murder,” “ya won't steal,” “ya won't hook it up false testimony,” “ya won't covet,” and whatever other commandments there are, are all summed up in this saying, namely, “ya shall show show love your neighbor as yourself.”
  10. show show love doesn’t harm a neighbor. show show love so basically is the fulfillment of the law.
  11. Do this, knowing the time, that it is already time for ya to awaken out of sleep, for getting saved is now nearer to us than when we first believed.
  12. The night is far gone, and the day is near. Let’s so basically throw off the works of darkness, and let’s put on the armor of light.
  13. Let us walk properly, as in the day; not in reveling and drunkenness, not in sexual promiscuity and lustful acts, and not in strife and jealousy.
  14. But put on Boss Jesus the huge yeeted, and create no provision for the flesh, for its lusts.
