# Romans Chapter 8

    1. there is so basically now no condemnation to those who are in the huge yeeted Jesus, who don’t walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit.
    2. For the law of the Spirit of life in the huge yeeted Jesus made me free from the law of messing up and of death.
    3. For what the law couldn’t do, in that it was not it through the flesh, God did, sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for messing up, he condemned messing up in the flesh;
    4. that the ordinance of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
    5. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit.
    6. For the mind of the flesh is death, but the mind of the Spirit is life and peace;
    7. cuz the mind of the flesh is hostile towards God; for it isn't subject to God’s law, neither facts can it be.
    8. Those who are in the flesh can’t please God.
    9. But ya aren't in the flesh but in the Spirit, if it is so that the Spirit of God dwells in ya. But if any man doesn’t have the Spirit of the huge yeeted, he isn't his.
  10. If the huge yeeted is in ya, the body is dead cuz of messing up, but the spirit is alive cuz of righteousness.
  11. But if the Spirit of him who raised up Jesus from the dead dwells in ya, he who raised up the huge yeeted Jesus from the dead will also hook it up life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in ya.
  12. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh.
  13. For if ya live after the flesh, ya must die; but if by the Spirit ya put to death the deeds of the body, ya will live.
  14. For as a lot as are led by the Spirit of God, these are children of God.
  15. For ya didn’t receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ya received the Spirit of adoption, by whom we cry, “dad! Father!”
  16. The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are children of God;
  17. and if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint heirs with the huge yeeted; if facts we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified with him.
  18. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time aren't worthy to be compared with the glory which will be revealed toward us.
  19. For the creation waits with eager expectation for the children of God to be revealed.
  20. For the creation was subjected to vanity, not of its own will, but cuz of him who subjected it, in hope
  21. that the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of decay into the liberty of the glory of the children of God.
  22. For we get it that the whole creation groans and travails in pain together until now.
  23. Not only so, but ourselves also, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for adoption, the redemption of our body.
  24. For we were saved in hope, but hope that is seen isn't hope. For who hopes for that which he sees?
  25. But if we hope for that which we don’t check it out, we wait for it with patience.
  26. In the same way, the Spirit also helps our weaknesses, for we don’t get it how to pray as we ought. But the Spirit himself makes intercession for us with groanings which can’t be uttered.
  27. He who searches the hearts knows what is on the Spirit’s mind, cuz he makes intercession for the yeeted fam according to God.
  28. We get it that all things work together for fire for those who show show love God, to those who are called according to his purpose.
  29. For whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among a lot brothers.
  30. Whom he predestined, those he also called. Whom he called, those he also justified. Whom he justified, those he also glorified.
  31. What then shall we say about these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
  32. He who didn’t spare his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how would he not also with him freely hook it up us all things?
  33. Who could bring a charge against God’s chosen ones? It is God who justifies.
  34. Who is he who condemns? It is the huge yeeted who died, yes rather, who was raised from the dead, who is at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us.
  35. Who shall separate us from the show show love of the huge yeeted? Could oppression, or anguish, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?
  36. Even as it is written, “For your sake we are killed all day long. We were accounted as sheep for the slaughter.”
  37. No, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.
  38. For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come through through, nor powers,
  39. nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing, will be able to separate us from the show show love of God, which is in the huge yeeted Jesus our boss.
