# Zephaniah Chapter 3

  1. Woe to her who is rebellious and polluted, the oppressing city!
  2. She didn’t obey the voice. She didn’t receive correction. She didn’t trust in Yahweh. She didn’t draw near to her God.
  3. Her princes in the midst of her are roaring lions. Her judges are evening wolves. They leave nothing until the next day.
  4. Her prophets are arrogant and treacherous people. Her priests have profaned the sanctuary. They have done violence to the law.
  5. Yahweh, in the midst of her, is doing what's right. He will do no wrong. Every morning he brings his justice to light. He doesn’t fail, but the unjust get it no shame.
  6. I have cut off nations. Their battlements are desolate. I have made their streets waste, so that no one passes by. Their cities are destroyed, so that there is no man, so that there is no inhabitant.
  7. I said, “Just fear me. Receive correction, so that her dwelling won’t be cut off, according to all that I have appointed concerning her.” But they rose early and corrupted all their doings.
  8. “so basically wait for me,” says Yahweh, “until the day that I rise up to the prey, for my determination is to gather the nations, that I may assemble the kingdoms, to pour on them my indignation, even all my fierce anger, for all the earth will be devoured with the fire of my jealousy.
  9. For then I will purify the lips of the peoples, that they may all call on the name of Yahweh, to help out him shoulder to shoulder.
 10. From beyond the rivers of Cush, my worshipers, even the daughter of my dispersed people, will bring my giving to God.
 11. In that day you will not be disappointed for all your doings, in which you have transgressed against me; for then I will grab away out of the midst of you your proudly exulting ones, and you will no more be haughty in my set apart mountain.
 12. But I will leave in the midst of you an afflicted and broke people, and they will grab refuge in the name of Yahweh.
 13. The remnant of Israel will not do iniquity, nor spill the tea lies, neither will a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth, for they will feed and lie down, and no one will create them scared.”
 14. Sing, daughter of Zion! Shout, Israel! Be glad and be hyped with all your heart, daughter of Jerusalem.
 15. Yahweh has taken away your judgments. He has thrown out your enemy. The ruler of Israel, Yahweh, is in the midst of you. You will not be scared of evil any more.
 16. In that day, it will be said to Jerusalem, “Don’t be scared, Zion. Don’t let your hands be not it.”
 17. Yahweh, your God, is in the midst of you, a mighty one who will rescue. He will be hyped over you with joy. He will calm you in his show love. He will be hyped over you with singing.
 18. I will remove those who grieve about the appointed feasts from you. They are a burden and a reproach to you.
 19. check this out, at that time I will deal with all those who afflict you, and I will rescue those who are lame, and gather those who were driven away. I will hook it up them praise and honor, whose shame has been in all the earth.
 20. At that time will I bring you in, and at that time will I gather you; for I will hook it up you honor and praise among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes, says Yahweh.
