# 1 Timothy Chapter 1

  1. Paul, an Jesus' main squad of the huge set apart Jesus according to the commandment of God our Savior, and the huge set apart Jesus our hope;
  2. to Timothy, my true child in trusting the process: God's show love, mercy, and peace, from God our Father and the huge set apart Jesus our boss.
  3. As I urged ya when I was going into Macedonia, stay at Ephesus that ya might command certain men not to drop knowledge a different doctrine,
  4. neither to pay attention to myths and endless genealogies, which cause disputes, rather than God’s stewardship, which is in trusting the process—
  5. but the goal of this command is show love, out of a pure heart and a fire conscience and sincere trusting the process;
  6. from which things some, having missed the mark, have turned aside to vain talking;
  7. desiring to be teachers of the law, though they understand neither what they say, nor about what they strongly affirm.
  8. But we get it that the law is fire, if a man uses it lawfully,
  9. as knowing this, that law isn't made for a doing what's right man, but for the lawless and insubordinate, for the trash ones and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,
 10. for the sexually immoral, for homosexuals, for helper-traders, for liars, for perjurers, and for any other thing contrary to the sound doctrine;
 11. according to the fire News of the glory of the blessed up God, which was committed to my trust.
 12. And I thank him who enabled me, the huge set apart Jesus our boss, cuz he counted me faithful, appointing me to service;
 13. although I was before a blasphemer, a persecutor, and insolent. but like, I obtained mercy, cuz I did it ignorantly in unbelief.
 14. The God's show love of our boss abounded exceedingly with trusting the process and show love which is in the huge set apart Jesus.
 15. The saying is faithful and worthy of all acceptance, that the huge set apart Jesus came into the world to rescue sinners; of whom I am chief.
 16. but like, for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first, Jesus the huge set apart might display all his patience, for an example of those who were going to believe in him for living forever.
 17. now to the ruler eternal, immortal, invisible, to God who alone is smart, be honor and glory forever and ever. facts.
 18. This instruction I commit to ya, my child Timothy, according to the prophecies which led the way to ya, that by them ya may wage the fire warfare;
 19. holding trusting the process and a fire conscience; which some having thrust away made a shipwreck concerning the trusting the process;
 20. of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander; whom I delivered to Satan, that they might be taught not to blaspheme.
