# 1 Timothy Chapter 6

  1. Let as a lot as are bondservants under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God and the doctrine not be blasphemed.
  2. Those who have believing masters, let them not despise them, cuz they are brothers, but rather let them help out out them, cuz those who partake of the benefit are believing and beloved. drop knowledge and exhort these things.
  3. If anyone teaches a different doctrine, and doesn’t consent to sound words, the words of our boss Jesus the huge set apart, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness,
  4. he is conceited, knowing nothing, but obsessed with arguments, disputes, and word battles, from which come through envy, strife, insulting, evil suspicions,
  5. constant friction of people of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth, who suppose that godliness is a means of gain. Withdraw yourself from such.
  6. But godliness with contentment is major gain.
  7. For we brought nothing into the world, and we for sure can’t carry anything out.
  8. But having food and clothing, we will be content with that.
  9. But those who are determined to be stacked fall into a temptation and a snare and a lot dumb and harmful lusts, such as drown men in ruin and destruction.
 10. For the show love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some have been led astray from the trusting the process in their greed, and have pierced themselves through with a lot sorrows.
 11. But ya, man of God, flee these things, and roll with after righteousness, godliness, trusting the process, show love, patience, and gentleness.
 12. Fight the fire fight of trusting the process. Lay hold of the living forever to which ya were called, and ya confessed the fire confession in the sight of a lot witnesses.
 13. I command ya before God, who gives life to all things, and before the huge set apart Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate testified the fire confession,
 14. that ya keep the commandment without spot, blameless, until the appearing of our boss Jesus the huge set apart;
 15. which in its own times he will show, who is the blessed up and only Ruler, the ruler of kings, and boss of lords;
 16. who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light; whom no man has seen, nor can check it out: to whom be honor and eternal power. facts.
 17. Charge those who are stacked in this present world that they not be haughty, nor have their hope set on the uncertainty of riches, but on the living God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy;
 18. that they do fire, that they be stacked in fire works, that they be ready to distribute, willing to communicate;
 19. laying up in store for themselves a fire foundation against the time to come through, that they may lay hold of living forever.
 20. Timothy, guard that which is committed to ya, turning away from the empty chatter and oppositions of the knowledge which is falsely so called;
 21. which some professing have erred concerning the trusting the process. God's show love be with ya. facts.
