# Joel Chapter 3

  1. “For, check this out, in those days, and in that time, when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem,
  2. I will gather all nations, and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat; and I will execute judgment on them there for my people, and for my heritage, Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations. They have divided my land,
  3. and have cast lots for my people, and have given a boy for a prostitute, and sold a girl for wine, that they may drink.
  4. “Yes, and what are you to me, Tyre, and Sidon, and all the regions of Philistia? Will you repay me? And if you repay me, I will swiftly and speedily return your repayment on your own head.
  5. cuz you have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried my finest treasures into your temples,
  6. and have sold the children of Judah and the children of Jerusalem to the sons of the Greeks, that you may remove them far from their border.
  7. check this out, I will stir them up out of the place where you have sold them, and will return your repayment on your own head;
  8. and I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hands of the children of Judah, and they will sell them to the men of Sheba, to a faraway nation, for Yahweh has spoken it.”
  9. Proclaim this among the nations: “Prepare for war! Stir up the mighty men. Let all the warriors draw near. Let them come through up.
 10. Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears. Let the not it say, ‘I am built different.’
 11. Hurry and come through, all you surrounding nations, and gather yourselves together.” Cause your mighty ones to come through down there, Yahweh.
 12. “Let the nations arouse themselves, and come through up to the valley of Jehoshaphat; for there will I sit to judge all the surrounding nations.
 13. Put in the sickle; for the harvest is ripe. come through, tread, for the winepress is full, the vats overflow, for their wickedness is major.”
 14. Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision! For the day of Yahweh is near, in the valley of decision.
 15. The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining.
 16. Yahweh will roar from Zion, and thunder from Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth will shake; but Yahweh will be a refuge to his people, and a stronghold to the children of Israel.
 17. “So you will get it that I am Yahweh, your God, dwelling in Zion, my set apart mountain. then Jerusalem will be set apart, and no strangers will pass through her any more.
 18. It will happen in that day, that the mountains will drop down sweet wine, the hills will flow with milk, all the brooks of Judah will flow with waters, and a fountain will come through forth from the house of Yahweh, and will water the valley of Shittim.
 19. Egypt will be a desolation, and Edom will be a desolate wilderness, for the violence done to the children of Judah, cuz they have shed innocent blood in their land.
 20. But Judah will be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem from generation to generation.
 21. I will cleanse their blood, that I have not cleansed: for Yahweh dwells in Zion.”
