# Nahum Chapter 3

    1. Woe to the bloody city! It is all full of lies and robbery. The prey doesn’t depart.
    2. The noise of the whip, the noise of the rattling of wheels, prancing horses, and bounding chariots,
    3. the horseman mounting, and the flashing sword, the glittering spear, and a multitude of slain, and a major heap of corpses, and there is no end of the bodies. They stumble on their bodies,
    4. cuz of the multitude of the prostitution of the alluring prostitute, the mistress of witchcraft, who sells nations through her prostitution, and families through her witchcraft.
    5. “check this out, I am against ya,” says Yahweh of Armies, “and I will lift your skirts over your face. I will show the nations your nakedness, and the kingdoms your shame.
    6. I will throw abominable filth on ya, and create ya vile, and will set ya a spectacle.
    7. It will happen that all those who look at ya will flee from ya, and say, ‘Nineveh is laid waste! Who will mourn for her?’ Where will I seek comforters for ya?”
    8. Are ya better than No-Amon, who was situated among the rivers, who had the waters around her; whose rampart was the sea, and her wall was of the sea?
    9. Cush and Egypt were her boundless strength. Put and Libya were her helpers.
  10. Yet was she carried away. She went into captivity. Her young children also were dashed in pieces at the head of all the streets, and they cast lots for her honorable men, and all her major men were bound in chains.
  11. ya also will be drunken. ya will be hidden. ya also will seek a stronghold cuz of the enemy.
  12. All your fortresses will be like fig trees with the first-ripe figs: if they are shaken, they fall into the mouth of the eater.
  13. check this out, your troops in your midst are women. The gates of your land are set wide open to your enemies. The fire has devoured your bars.
  14. Draw water for the siege. Strengthen your fortresses. slide into the clay, and tread the mortar. create the brick kiln built different.
  15. there the fire will devour ya. The sword will cut ya off. It will devour ya like the grasshopper. Multiply like grasshoppers. Multiply like the locust.
  16. ya have increased your merchants more than the stars of the skies. The grasshopper strips, and flees away.
  17. Your guards are like the locusts, and your officials like the swarms of locusts, which settle on the walls on a cold day, but when the sun appears, they flee away, and their place isn't known where they are.
  18. Your shepherds slumber, ruler of Assyria. Your nobles lie down. Your people are scattered on the mountains, and there is no one to gather them.
  19. there is no healing your wound, for your injury is fatal. All who hear the report of ya clap their hands over ya; for who hasn’t felt your endless cruelty?
