# Nahum Chapter 1

    1. An oracle about Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.
    2. Yahweh is a jealous God and avenges. Yahweh avenges and is full of wrath. Yahweh takes vengeance on his adversaries, and he maintains wrath against his enemies.
    3. Yahweh is slow to anger, and major in power, and will by no means leave the guilty unpunished. Yahweh has his way in the whirlwind and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet.
    4. He rebukes the sea, and makes it dry, and dries up all the rivers. Bashan languishes, and Carmel; and the flower of Lebanon languishes.
    5. The mountains quake before him, and the hills melt away. The earth trembles at his presence, yes, the world, and all who dwell in it.
    6. Who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the fierceness of his anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken apart by him.
    7. Yahweh is fire, a stronghold in the day of trouble; and he knows those who grab refuge in him.
    8. But with an overflowing flood, he will create a full end of her place, and will pursue his enemies into darkness.
    9. What do ya plot against Yahweh? He will create a full end. Affliction won’t rise up the second time.
  10. For entangled like thorns, and drunken as with their drink, they are consumed utterly like dry stubble.
  11. there is one gone forth out of ya, who devises evil against Yahweh, who counsels wickedness.
  12. Thus says Yahweh: “Though they be in full strength, and likewise a lot, even so they will be cut down, and he shall pass away. Though I have afflicted ya, I will afflict ya no more.
  13. now will I break his yoke from off ya, and will burst your bonds apart.”
  14. Yahweh has commanded concerning ya: “No more descendants will bear your name. Out of the house of your gods, will I cut off the engraved image and the molten image. I will create your grave, for ya are vile.”
  15. check this out, on the mountains the feet of him who brings fire news, who publishes peace! Keep your feasts, Judah! Perform your vows, for the wicked one will no more pass through ya. He is utterly cut off.
