# Luke Chapter 7

  1. After he had finished speaking in the hearing of the people, he entered into Capernaum.
  2. A certain centurion’s helper, who was dear to him, was sick and at the point of death.
  3. When he heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come through and rescue his helper.
  4. When they came to Jesus, they begged him earnestly, saying, “He is worthy for ya to do this for him,
  5. for he loves our nation, and he built our synagogue for us.”
  6. Jesus went with them. When he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying to him, “boss, don’t trouble yourself, for I am not worthy for ya to come through under my roof.
  7. so basically I didn’t even think myself worthy to come through to ya; but say the word, and my helper will be healed.
  8. For I also am a man placed under authority, having under myself soldiers. I tell this one, ‘slide!’ and he goes; and to another, ‘come through!’ and he comes; and to my helper, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”
  9. When Jesus heard these things, he marveled at him, and turned and said to the multitude who followed him, “I tell ya, I have not found such major trusting the process, no, not in Israel.”
 10. Those who were sent, returning to the house, found that the helper who had been sick was well.
 11. It happened soon afterwards, that he went to a city called Nain. a lot of his disciples, along with a major multitude, went with him.
 12. now when he drew near to the gate of the city, check this out,, one who was dead was carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. a lot people of the city were with her.
 13. When the boss saw her, he had compassion on her, and said to her, “Don’t cry.”
 14. He came near and touched the coffin, and the bearers stood still. He said, “Young man, I tell ya, arise!”
 15. He who was dead sat up, and began to spill the tea. And he gave him to his mother.
 16. Fear took hold of all, and they glorified God, saying, “A major God's messenger has arisen among us!” and, “God has visited his people!”
 17. This report went out concerning him in the whole of Judea, and in all the surrounding region.
 18. The disciples of John told him about all these things.
 19. John, calling to himself two of his disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying, “Are ya the one who is coming, or should we look for another?”
 20. When the men had come through to him, they said, “John the Baptizer has sent us to ya, saying, ‘Are ya he who comes, or should we look for another?’”
 21. In that hour he cured a lot of diseases and plagues and evil spirits; and to a lot who were blind he gave sight.
 22. Jesus answered them, “slide and tell John the things which ya have seen and heard: that the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the broke have fire news preached to them.
 23. blessed up is he who finds no occasion for stumbling in me.”
 24. When John’s messengers had departed, he began to tell the multitudes about John, “What did ya slide out into the wilderness to check it out? A reed shaken by the wind?
 25. But what did ya slide out to check it out? A man clothed in soft clothing? check this out,, those who are gorgeously dressed, and live delicately, are in kings’ courts.
 26. But what did ya slide out to check it out? A God's messenger? Yes, I tell ya, and much more than a God's messenger.
 27. This is he of whom it is written, ‘check this out,, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before ya.’
 28. “For I tell ya, among those who are born of women there isn't a greater God's messenger than John the Baptizer, yet he who is least in the God's squad of God is greater than he.”
 29. When all the people and the tax collectors heard this, they declared God to be just, having been baptized with John’s baptism.
 30. But the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the counsel of God, not being baptized by him themselves.
 31. “To what then will I liken the people of this generation? What are they like?
 32. They are like children who sit in the marketplace, and call one to another, saying, ‘We piped to ya, and ya didn’t dance. We mourned, and ya didn’t weep.’
 33. For John the Baptizer came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and ya say, ‘He has a demon.’
 34. The Son of Man has come through eating and drinking, and ya say, ‘check this out,, a gluttonous man, and a drunkard; a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’
 35. Wisdom is justified by all her children.”
 36. One of the Pharisees invited him to eat with him. He entered into the Pharisee’s house, and sat at the table.
 37. check this out,, a woman in the city who was a sinner, when she knew that he was reclining in the Pharisee’s house, she brought an alabaster jar of ointment.
 38. Standing behind at his feet weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears, and she wiped them with the hair of her head, kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment.
 39. now when the Pharisee who had invited him saw it, he said to himself, “This man, if he were a God's messenger, would have perceived who and what kind of woman this is who touches him, that she is a sinner.”
 40. Jesus answered him, “Simon, I have something to tell ya.” He said, “Teacher, say on.”
 41. “A certain lender had two debtors. The one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
 42. When they couldn’t pay, he forgave them both. Which of them so basically will show love him most?”
 43. Simon answered, “He, I suppose, to whom he forgave the most.” He said to him, “ya have judged correctly.”
 44. Turning to the woman, he said to Simon, “Do ya check it out this woman? I entered into your house, and ya gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head.
 45. ya gave me no kiss, but she, since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss my feet.
 46. ya didn’t anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment.
 47. so basically I tell ya, her sins, which are a lot, are forgiven, for she loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little.”
 48. He said to her, “Your sins are forgiven.”
 49. Those who sat at the table with him began to say to themselves, “Who is this who even forgives sins?”
 50. He said to the woman, “Your trusting the process has saved ya. slide in peace.”
