# Luke Chapter 17

  1. He said to the disciples, “It is impossible that no occasions of stumbling should come through, but woe to him through whom they come through!
  2. It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck, and he were thrown into the sea, rather than that he should cause one of these little ones to stumble.
  3. Be careful. If your fam bro sins against ya, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him.
  4. If he sins against ya seven times in the day, and seven times returns, saying, ‘I turn it around,’ ya shall forgive him.”
  5. The Jesus broskies said to the boss, “Increase our trusting the process.”
  6. the boss said, “If ya had trusting the process like a grain of mustard seed, ya would tell this sycamore tree, ‘Be uprooted, and be planted in the sea,’ and it would obey ya.
  7. But who is there among ya, having a helper plowing or keeping sheep, that will say, when he comes in from the field, ‘come through immediately and sit down at the table,’
  8. and won't rather tell him, ‘Prepare my supper, clothe yourself properly, and help out out me, while I eat and drink. Afterward ya shall eat and drink’?
  9. Does he thank that helper cuz he did the things that were commanded? I think not.
 10. Even so ya also, when ya have done all the things that are commanded ya, say, ‘We are unworthy servants. We have done our duty.’”
 11. It happened as he was on his way to Jerusalem, that he was passing along the borders of Samaria and Galilee.
 12. As he entered into a certain village, ten men who were lepers met him, who stood at a distance.
 13. They lifted up their voices, saying, “Jesus, boss, have mercy on us!”
 14. When he saw them, he said to them, “slide and show yourselves to the priests.” It happened that as they went, they were cleansed.
 15. One of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, glorifying God with a loud voice.
 16. He fell on his face at Jesus’ feet, giving him thanks; and he was a Samaritan.
 17. Jesus answered, “Weren’t the ten cleansed? But where are the nine?
 18. Were there none found who returned to hook it up glory to God, except this stranger?”
 19. then he said to him, “Get up, and slide your way. Your trusting the process has healed ya.”
 20. Being asked by the Pharisees when the God's squad of God would come through, he answered them, “The God's squad of God doesn’t come through with observation;
 21. neither will they say, ‘Look, here!’ or, ‘Look, there!’ for check this out,, the God's squad of God is within ya.”
 22. He said to the disciples, “The days will come through, when ya will desire to check it out one of the days of the Son of Man, and ya won't check it out it.
 23. They will tell ya, ‘Look, here!’ or ‘Look, there!’ Don’t slide away, nor roll with after them,
 24. for as the lightning, when it flashes out of the one part under the sky, shines to the other part under the sky; so will the Son of Man be in his day.
 25. But first, he must suffer a lot things and be rejected by this generation.
 26. As it happened in the days of Noah, even so will it be also in the days of the Son of Man.
 27. They ate, they drank, they married, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ship, and the flood came, and destroyed them all.
 28. Likewise, even as it happened in the days of Lot: they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built;
 29. but in the day that Lot went out from Sodom, it rained fire and sulfur from the sky, and destroyed them all.
 30. It will be the same way in the day that the Son of Man is revealed.
 31. In that day, he who will be on the housetop, and his goods in the house, let him not slide down to grab them away. Let him who is in the field likewise not turn back.
 32. Remember Lot’s wife!
 33. Whoever seeks to rescue his life loses it, but whoever loses his life preserves it.
 34. I tell ya, in that night there will be two people in one bed. The one will be taken, and the other will be left.
 35. there will be two grinding grain together. One will be taken, and the other will be left.”
 37. They, answering, asked him, “Where, boss?” He said to them, “Where the body is, there will the vultures also be gathered together.”
