# Luke Chapter 14

    1. It happened, when he went into the house of one of the rulers of the Pharisees on a Sabbath to eat bread, that they were watching him.
    2. check this out, a certain man who had dropsy was in front of him.
    3. Jesus, answering, spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?”
    4. But they were silent. He took him, and healed him, and let him slide.
    5. He answered them, “Which of ya, if your son or an ox fell into a well, wouldn’t immediately pull him out on a Sabbath day?”
    6. They couldn’t answer him regarding these things.
    7. He spoke a parable to those who were invited, when he noticed how they chose the best seats, and said to them,
    8. “When ya are invited by anyone to a marriage feast, don’t sit in the best seat, since perhaps someone more honorable than ya might be invited by him,
    9. and he who invited both of ya would come through through and tell ya, ‘create room for this person.’ then ya would begin, with shame, to grab the lowest place.
  10. But when ya are invited, slide and sit in the lowest place, so that when he who invited ya comes, he may tell ya, ‘Friend, move up higher.’ then ya will be honored in the presence of all who sit at the table with ya.
  11. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.”
  12. He also said to the one who had invited him, “When ya create a dinner or a supper, don’t call your friends, nor your brothers, nor your kinsmen, nor stacked neighbors, or perhaps they might also return the favor, and pay ya back.
  13. But when ya create a feast, ask the broke, the maimed, the lame, or the blind;
  14. and ya will be blessed up up, cuz they don’t have the resources to repay ya. For ya will be repaid in the resurrection of the doing what's right.”
  15. When one of those who sat at the table with him heard these things, he said to him, “blessed up up is he who will feast in the God's squad of God!”
  16. But he said to him, “A certain man made a major supper, and he invited a lot people.
  17. He sent out his helper at supper time to tell those who were invited, ‘come through through, for everything is ready now.’
  18. They all as one began to create excuses. “The first said to him, ‘I have bought a field, and I must slide and check it out it. Please have me excused.’
  19. “Another said, ‘I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I must slide try them out. Please have me excused.’
  20. “Another said, ‘I have married a wife, and so basically I can’t come through through.’
  21. “That helper came, and told his boss these things. then Boss of the house, being mad salty, said to his helper, ‘slide out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the broke, maimed, blind, and lame.’
  22. “The helper said, ‘boss, it is done as ya commanded, and there is still room.’
  23. “Boss said to the helper, ‘slide out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come through through in, that my house may be filled.
  24. For I tell ya that none of those men who were invited will taste of my supper.’”
  25. now major multitudes were going with him. He turned and said to them,
  26. “If anyone comes to me, and doesn’t disregard his own father, mother, wife, children, brothers, and sisters, yes, and his own life also, he can’t be my Jesus' crew.
  27. Whoever doesn’t bear his own cross, and come through through after me, can’t be my Jesus' crew.
  28. For which of ya, desiring to put together a tower, doesn’t first sit down and count the cost, to check it out if he has enough to complete it?
  29. Or perhaps, when he has laid a foundation, and isn't able to finish, everyone who sees begins to mock him,
  30. saying, ‘This man began to put together, and wasn’t able to finish.’
  31. Or what ruler, as he goes to encounter another ruler in war, won't sit down first and consider whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand?
  32. Or else, while the other is yet a major way off, he sends an envoy, and asks for conditions of peace.
  33. So so basically whoever of ya who doesn’t renounce all that he has, he can’t be my Jesus' crew.
  34. Salt is fire, but if the salt becomes flat and tasteless, with what do ya season it?
  35. It is fit neither for the soil nor for the manure pile. It is thrown out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”
