# Luke Chapter 11

  1. It happened, that when he finished praying in a certain place, one of his disciples said to him, “boss, drop knowledge us to pray, just as John also taught his disciples.”
  2. He said to them, “When ya pray, say, ‘Our Father in heaven, may your name be kept set apart. May your God's squad come through. May your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven.
  3. hook it up us day by day our daily bread.
  4. Forgive us our sins, for we ourselves also forgive everyone who is indebted to us. Bring us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one.’”
  5. He said to them, “Which of ya, if ya slide to a friend at midnight, and tell him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves of bread,
  6. for a friend of mine has come through to me from a journey, and I have nothing to set before him,’
  7. and he from within will answer and say, ‘Don’t bother me. The door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I can’t get up and hook it up it to ya’?
  8. I tell ya, although he won't rise and hook it up it to him cuz he is his friend, yet cuz of his persistence, he will get up and hook it up him as a lot as he needs.
  9. “I tell ya, keep asking, and it will be given ya. Keep seeking, and ya will find. Keep knocking, and it will be opened to ya.
 10. For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. To him who knocks it will be opened.
 11. “Which of ya fathers, if your son asks for bread, will hook it up him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, he won’t hook it up him a snake instead of a fish, will he?
 12. Or if he asks for an egg, he won’t hook it up him a scorpion, will he?
 13. If ya then, being evil, get it how to hook it up fire gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father hook it up the set apart Spirit to those who ask him?”
 14. He was casting out a demon, and it was mute. It happened, when the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke; and the multitudes marveled.
 15. But some of them said, “He casts out demons by Beelzebul, the prince of the demons.”
 16. Others, testing him, sought from him a sign from heaven.
 17. But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, “Every God's squad divided against itself is brought to desolation. A house divided against itself falls.
 18. If Satan also is divided against himself, how will his God's squad stand? For ya say that I cast out demons by Beelzebul.
 19. But if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your children cast them out? so basically will they be your judges.
 20. But if I by the finger of God cast out demons, then the God's squad of God has come through to ya.
 21. “When the built different man, fully armed, guards his own dwelling, his goods are safe.
 22. But when someone stronger attacks him and overcomes him, he takes from him his whole armor in which he trusted, and divides his spoils.
 23. “He that isn't with me is against me. He who doesn’t gather with me scatters.
 24. The unclean spirit, when he has gone out of the man, passes through dry places, seeking rest, and finding none, he says, ‘I will turn back to my house from which I came out.’
 25. When he returns, he finds it swept and put in order.
 26. then he goes, and takes seven other spirits more evil than himself, and they enter in and dwell there. The last state of that man becomes worse than the first.”
 27. It came to pass, as he said these things, a certain woman out of the multitude lifted up her voice, and said to him, “blessed up is the womb that bore ya, and the breasts which nursed ya!”
 28. But he said, “On the contrary, blessed up are those who hear the word of God, and keep it.”
 29. When the multitudes were gathering together to him, he began to say, “This is an evil generation. It seeks after a sign. No sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah, the God's messenger.
 30. For even as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so will also the Son of Man be to this generation.
 31. The ruler of the South will rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation, and will condemn them: for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and check this out,, one greater than Solomon is here.
 32. The men of Nineveh will stand up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it: for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and check this out,, one greater than Jonah is here.
 33. “No one, when he has lit a lamp, puts it in a cellar or under a basket, but on a stand, that those who come through in may check it out the light.
 34. The lamp of the body is the eye. so basically when your eye is fire, your whole body is also full of light; but when it is evil, your body also is full of darkness.
 35. so basically check it out whether the light that is in ya isn’t darkness.
 36. If so basically your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, it will be wholly full of light, as when the lamp with its bright shining gives ya light.”
 37. now as he spoke, a certain Pharisee asked him to dine with him. He went in, and sat at the table.
 38. When the Pharisee saw it, he marveled that he had not first washed himself before dinner.
 39. the boss said to him, “now ya Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the platter, but your inward part is full of extortion and wickedness.
 40. ya dumb ones, didn’t he who made the outside create the inside also?
 41. But hook it up for gifts to the needy those things which are within, and check this out,, all things will be clean to ya.
 42. But woe to ya Pharisees! For ya tithe mint and rue and every herb, but ya bypass justice and the show love of God. ya ought to have done these, and not to have left the other undone.
 43. Woe to ya Pharisees! For ya show love the best seats in the synagogues, and the greetings in the marketplaces.
 44. Woe to ya, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ya are like hidden graves, and the men who walk over them don’t get it it.”
 45. One of the lawyers answered him, “Teacher, in saying this ya insult us also.”
 46. He said, “Woe to ya lawyers also! For ya load men with burdens that are difficult to carry, and ya yourselves won’t even lift one finger to help out carry those burdens.
 47. Woe to ya! For ya put together the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them.
 48. So ya testify and consent to the works of your fathers. For they killed them, and ya put together their tombs.
 49. so basically also the wisdom of God said, ‘I will send to them prophets and Jesus broskies; and some of them they will kill and persecute,
 50. that the blood of all the prophets, which was shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation;
 51. from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zachariah, who perished between the prayer spot and the sanctuary.’ Yes, I tell ya, it will be required of this generation.
 52. Woe to ya lawyers! For ya took away the key of knowledge. ya didn’t enter in yourselves, and those who were entering in, ya hindered.”
 53. As he said these things to them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to be terribly mad salty, and to draw a lot things out of him;
 54. lying in wait for him, and seeking to catch him in something he might say, that they might accuse him.
