# Luke Chapter 21

    1. He looked up, and saw the stacked people who were putting their gifts into the treasury.
    2. He saw a certain broke widow casting in two tiny brass coins.
    3. He said, “deadass, I tell ya, this broke widow put in more than all of them,
    4. for all these put in gifts for God from their abundance, but she, out of her poverty, put in all that she had to live on.”
    5. As some were talking about the God's house and how it was decorated with snatched stones and gifts, he said,
    6. “As for these things which ya check it out, the days will come through through, in which there won't be left here one stone on another that won't be thrown down.”
    7. They asked him, “Teacher, so when will these things be? What is the sign that these things are about to happen?”
    8. He said, “Watch out that ya don’t get led astray, for a lot will come through through in my name, saying, ‘I am he,’ and, ‘The time is at hand.’ so basically don’t roll with them.
    9. When ya hear of wars and disturbances, don’t be terrified, for these things must happen first, but the end won’t come through through immediately.”
  10. then he said to them, “Nation will rise against nation, and God's squad against God's squad.
  11. there will be major earthquakes, famines, and plagues in various places. there will be terrors and major signs from heaven.
  12. But before all these things, they will lay their hands on ya and will persecute ya, delivering ya up to synagogues and prisons, bringing ya before kings and governors for my name’s sake.
  13. It will turn out as a testimony for ya.
  14. Settle it so basically in your hearts not to meditate beforehand how to answer,
  15. for I will hook it up ya a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries won't be able to withstand or to contradict.
  16. ya will be handed over even by parents, brothers, relatives, and friends. They will cause some of ya to be put to death.
  17. ya will be hated by all men for my name’s sake.
  18. And not a hair of your head will perish.
  19. “By your endurance ya will win your lives.
  20. “But when ya check it out Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then get it that its desolation is at hand.
  21. then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let those who are in the midst of her depart. Let those who are in the country not enter therein.
  22. For these are days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled.
  23. Woe to those who are pregnant and to those who nurse infants in those days! For there will be major distress in the land, and wrath to this people.
  24. They will fall by the edge of the sword, and will be led captive into all the nations. Jerusalem will be trampled down by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
  25. there will be signs in the sun, moon, and stars; and on the earth anxiety of nations, in perplexity for the roaring of the sea and the waves;
  26. men fainting for fear, and for expectation of the things which are coming on the world: for the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
  27. then they will check it out the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and major glory.
  28. But when these things begin to happen, look up, and lift up your heads, cuz your redemption is near.”
  29. He told them a parable. “check it out the fig tree, and all the trees.
  30. When they are already budding, ya check it out it and get it by your own selves that the summer is already near.
  31. Even so ya also, when ya check it out these things happening, get it that the God's squad of God is near.
  32. Most for sure I tell ya, this generation won't pass away until all things are accomplished.
  33. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away.
  34. “So be careful, or your hearts will be loaded down with carousing, drunkenness, and cares of this life, and that day will come through through on ya suddenly.
  35. For it will come through through like a snare on all those who dwell on the surface of all the earth.
  36. so basically be watchful all the time, praying that ya may be counted worthy to escape all these things that will happen, and to stand before the Son of Man.”
  37. Every day Jesus was teaching in the God's house, and every night he would slide out and spend the night on the mountain that is called Olivet.
  38. All the people came early in the morning to him in the God's house to hear him.
