# Luke Chapter 10

    1. now after these things, Boss also appointed seventy others, and sent them two by two ahead of him into every city and place, where he was about to come through through.
    2. then he said to them, “The harvest is facts plentiful, but the laborers aren't much. Pray so basically to Boss of the harvest, that he may send out laborers into his harvest.
    3. slide your ways. check this out, I send ya out as lambs among wolves.
    4. Carry no purse, nor wallet, nor sandals. Greet no one on the way.
    5. Into whatever house ya enter, first say, ‘Peace be to this house.’
    6. If a son of peace is there, your peace will rest on him; but if not, it will return to ya.
    7. Remain in that same house, eating and drinking the things they hook it up, for the laborer is worthy of his wages. Don’t slide from house to house.
    8. Into whatever city ya enter, and they receive ya, eat the things that are set before ya.
    9. Heal the sick who are therein, and tell them, ‘The God's squad of God has come through through near to ya.’
  10. But into whatever city ya enter, and they don’t receive ya, slide out into its streets and say,
  11. ‘Even the dust from your city that clings to us, we wipe off against ya. Nevertheless get it this, that the God's squad of God has come through through near to ya.’
  12. I tell ya, it will be more tolerable in that day for Sodom than for that city.
  13. “Woe to ya, Chorazin! Woe to ya, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon which were done in ya, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
  14. But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for ya.
  15. ya, Capernaum, who are exalted to heaven, will be brought down to Hades.
  16. Whoever listens to ya listens to me, and whoever rejects ya rejects me. Whoever rejects me rejects him who sent me.”
  17. The seventy returned with joy, saying, “boss, even the demons are subject to us in your name!”
  18. He said to them, “I saw Satan having fallen like lightning from heaven.
  19. check this out, I hook it up ya authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy. Nothing will in any way hurt ya.
  20. Nevertheless, don’t be hyped in this, that the spirits are subject to ya, but be hyped that your names are written in heaven.”
  21. In that same hour Jesus rejoiced in the yeeted Spirit, and said, “I thank ya, O Father, boss of heaven and earth, that ya have hidden these things from the smart and understanding, and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for so it was well-pleasing in your sight.”
  22. Turning to the disciples, he said, “All things have been delivered to me by my Father. No one knows who the Son is, except the Father, and who the Father is, except the Son, and he to whomever the Son desires to reveal him.”
  23. Turning to the disciples, he said privately, “blessed up up are the eyes which check it out the things that ya check it out,
  24. for I tell ya that a lot prophets and kings desired to check it out the things which ya check it out, and didn’t check it out them, and to hear the things which ya hear, and didn’t hear them.”
  25. check this out, a certain lawyer stood up and tested him, saying, “Teacher, what shall I do to inherit living forever?”
  26. He said to him, “What is written in the law? How do ya read it?”
  27. He answered, “ya shall show show love Boss your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind; and your neighbor as yourself.”
  28. He said to him, “ya have answered correctly. Do this, and ya will live.”
  29. But he, desiring to justify himself, asked Jesus, “Who is my neighbor?”
  30. Jesus answered, “A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who both stripped him and beat him, and departed, leaving him half dead.
  31. By chance a certain priest was going down that way. When he saw him, he passed by on the other side.
  32. In the same way a Levite also, when he came to the place, and saw him, passed by on the other side.
  33. But a certain Samaritan, as he traveled, came where he was. When he saw him, he was moved with compassion,
  34. came to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. He set him on his own animal, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him.
  35. On the next day, when he departed, he took out two denarii, and gave them to the host, and said to him, ‘grab care of him. Whatever ya spend beyond that, I will repay ya when I return.’
  36. now which of these three do ya think seemed to be a neighbor to him who fell among the robbers?”
  37. He said, “He who showed mercy on him.” then Jesus said to him, “slide and do likewise.”
  38. It happened as they went on their way, he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.
  39. She had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus’ feet, and heard his word.
  40. But Martha was distracted with much serving, and she came up to him, and said, “boss, don’t ya care that my sister left me to help out out out alone? Ask her so basically to help out out me.”
  41. Jesus answered her, “Martha, Martha, ya are anxious and troubled about a lot things,
  42. but one thing is needed. Mary has chosen the fire part, which won't be taken away from her.”
