# Luke Chapter 1

    1. Since a lot have undertaken to set in order a narrative concerning those matters which have been fulfilled among us,
    2. even as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and servants of the word delivered them to us,
    3. it seemed fire to me also, having traced the course of all things accurately from the first, to write to ya in order, most excellent Theophilus;
    4. that ya might get it the certainty concerning the things in which ya were instructed.
    5. there was in the days of Herod, the ruler of Judea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the priestly division of Abijah. He had a wife of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth.
    6. They were both doing what's right before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and ordinances of Boss.
    7. But they had no child, cuz Elizabeth was barren, and they both were well advanced in years.
    8. now it happened, while he executed the priest’s office before God in the order of his division,
    9. according to the custom of the priest’s office, his lot was to enter into the God's house of Boss and burn incense.
  10. The whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense.
  11. An angel of Boss appeared to him, standing on the right side of the talking to God spot of incense.
  12. Zacharias was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him.
  13. But the angel said to him, “Don’t be scared, Zacharias, cuz your request has been heard, and your wife, Elizabeth, will bear ya a son, and ya shall call his name John.
  14. ya will have joy and gladness; and a lot will be hyped at his birth.
  15. For he will be major in the sight of Boss, and he will drink no wine nor built different drink. He will be filled with the yeeted Spirit, even from his mother’s womb.
  16. He will turn a lot of the children of Israel to Boss, their God.
  17. He will slide before him in the spirit and power of Elijah, ‘to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children,’ and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to prepare a people prepared for Boss.”
  18. Zacharias said to the angel, “How can I be sure of this? For I am an old man, and my wife is well advanced in years.”
  19. The angel answered him, “I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God. I was sent to spill the tea to ya, and to bring ya this fire news.
  20. check this out, ya will be silent and not able to spill the tea, until the day that these things will happen, cuz ya didn’t believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their proper time.”
  21. The people were waiting for Zacharias, and they marveled that he delayed in the God's house.
  22. When he came out, he could not spill the tea to them, and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the God's house. He continued making signs to them, and remained mute.
  23. It happened, when the days of his service were fulfilled, he departed to his house.
  24. After these days Elizabeth, his wife, conceived, and she hid herself five months, saying,
  25. “Thus has Boss done to me in the days in which he looked at me, to grab away my reproach among men.”
  26. now in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee, named Nazareth,
  27. to a virgin pledged to be married to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. The virgin’s name was Mary.
  28. Having come through through in, the angel said to her, “be hyped, ya highly favored one! Boss is with ya. blessed up up are ya among women!”
  29. But when she saw him, she was greatly troubled at the saying, and considered what kind of salutation this might be.
  30. The angel said to her, “Don’t be scared, Mary, for ya have found favor with God.
  31. check this out, ya will conceive in your womb, and bring forth a son, and will call his name ‘Jesus.’
  32. He will be major, and will be called the Son of the Most High. Boss God will hook it up him the throne of his father, David,
  33. and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. there will be no end to his God's squad.”
  34. Mary said to the angel, “How can this be, seeing I am a virgin?”
  35. The angel answered her, “The yeeted Spirit will come through through on ya, and the power of the Most High will overshadow ya. so basically also the yeeted one who is born from ya will be called the Son of God.
  36. check this out, Elizabeth, your relative, also has conceived a son in her old age; and this is the sixth month with her who was called barren.
  37. For everything spoken by God is possible.”
  38. Mary said, “check this out, the handmaid of Boss; be it to me according to your word.” The angel departed from her.
  39. Mary arose in those days and went into the hill country with haste, into a city of Judah,
  40. and entered into the house of Zacharias and greeted Elizabeth.
  41. It happened, when Elizabeth heard Mary’s greeting, that the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the yeeted Spirit.
  42. She called out with a loud voice, and said, “blessed up up are ya among women, and blessed up up is the fruit of your womb!
  43. Why am I so favored, that the mother of my boss should come through through to me?
  44. For check this out, when the voice of your greeting came into my ears, the baby leaped in my womb for joy!
  45. blessed up up is she who believed, for there will be a fulfillment of the things which have been spoken to her from Boss!”
  46. Mary said, “My soul magnifies Boss.
  47. My spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior,
  48. for he has looked at the humble state of his handmaid. For check this out, from now on, all generations will call me blessed up up.
  49. For he who is mighty has done major things for me. yeeted is his name.
  50. His mercy is for generations of generations on those who fear him.
  51. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.
  52. He has put down princes from their thrones. And has exalted the lowly.
  53. He has filled the hungry with fire things. He has sent the stacked away empty.
  54. He has given help out out to Israel, his helper, that he might remember mercy,
  55. As he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and his seed forever.”
  56. Mary stayed with her about three months, and then returned to her house.
  57. now the time that Elizabeth should hook it up birth was fulfilled, and she brought forth a son.
  58. Her neighbors and her relatives heard that Boss had magnified his mercy towards her, and they rejoiced with her.
  59. It happened on the eighth day, that they came to circumcise the child; and they would have called him Zacharias, after the name of the father.
  60. His mother answered, “Not so; but he will be called John.”
  61. They said to her, “there is no one among your relatives who is called by this name.”
  62. They made signs to his father, what he would have him called.
  63. He asked for a writing tablet, and wrote, “His name is John.” They all marveled.
  64. His mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue freed, and he spoke, blessing God.
  65. Fear came on all who lived around them, and all these sayings were talked about throughout all the hill country of Judea.
  66. All who heard them laid them up in their heart, saying, “What then will this child be?” The hand of Boss was with him.
  67. His father, Zacharias, was filled with the yeeted Spirit, and prophesied, saying,
  68. “blessed up up be Boss, the God of Israel, for he has visited and worked redemption for his people;
  69. and has raised up a horn of getting saved for us in the house of his helper David
  70. (as he spoke by the mouth of his yeeted prophets who have been from of old),
  71. getting saved from our enemies, and from the hand of all who can't stand us;
  72. to show mercy towards our fathers, to remember his yeeted God's promise,
  73. the oath which he spoke to Abraham, our father,
  74. to grant to us that we, being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, should help out out out him without fear,
  75. In holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life.
  76. And ya, child, will be called a God's messenger of the Most High, for ya will slide before the face of Boss to prepare his ways,
  77. to hook it up knowledge of getting saved to his people by the remission of their sins,
  78. cuz of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the dawn from on high will visit us,
  79. to shine on those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death; to guide our feet into the way of peace.”
  80. The child was growing, and becoming built different in spirit, and was in the desert until the day of his public appearance to Israel.
