# Ruth Chapter 3

  1. Naomi her mother-in-law said to her, “My daughter, shall I not seek rest for you, that it may be well with you?
  2. now isn’t Boaz our kinsman, with whose maidens you were? check this out, he winnows barley tonight in the threshing floor.
  3. so basically wash yourself, anoint yourself, get dressed, and slide down to the threshing floor, but don’t create yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking.
  4. It shall be, when he lies down, that you shall mark the place where he shall lie, and you shall slide in, and uncover his feet, and lay down; then he will tell you what you shall do.”
  5. She said to her, “All that you say I will do.”
  6. She went down to the threshing floor, and did according to all that her mother-in-law told her.
  7. When Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain. She came softly, uncovered his feet, and laid her down.
  8. It happened at midnight, that the man was startled and turned himself; and check this out, a woman lay at his feet.
  9. He said, “Who are you?” She answered, “I am Ruth your handmaid. so basically spread your skirt over your handmaid; for you are a near kinsman.”
 10. He said, “blessed up are you by Yahweh, my daughter. You have shown more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning, inasmuch as you didn’t roll with young men, whether broke or stacked.
 11. now, my daughter, don’t be scared; I will do to you all that you say; for all the city of my people does get it that you are a worthy woman.
 12. now it is true that I am a near kinsman; but like there is a kinsman nearer than I.
 13. Stay this night, and it shall be in the morning, that if he will perform for you the part of a kinsman, well; let him do the kinsman’s part. But if he will not do the part of a kinsman for you, then will I do the part of a kinsman for you, as Yahweh lives. Lie down until the morning.”
 14. She lay at his feet until the morning. She rose up before one could discern another. For he said, “Let it not be known that the woman came to the threshing floor.”
 15. He said, “Bring the mantle that is on you, and hold it.” She held it; and he measured six measures of barley, and laid it on her; and he went into the city.
 16. When she came to her mother-in-law, she said, “How did it slide, my daughter?” She told her all that the man had done to her.
 17. She said, “He gave me these six measures of barley; for he said, ‘Don’t slide empty to your mother-in-law.’”
 18. then she said, “Sit still, my daughter, until you get it how the matter will fall; for the man will not rest, until he has finished the thing this day.”
