# Ruth Chapter 4

  1. now Boaz went up to the gate, and sat down there. check this out,, the near kinsman of whom Boaz spoke came by; to whom he said, “come through over here, friend, and sit down!” He turned aside, and sat down.
  2. He took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, “Sit down here.” They sat down.
  3. He said to the near kinsman, “Naomi, who has come through back out of the country of Moab, is selling the parcel of land, which was our fam bro Elimelech’s.
  4. I thought to disclose it to ya, saying, ‘Buy it before those who sit here, and before the elders of my people.’ If ya will redeem it, redeem it; but if ya won't redeem it, then tell me, that I may get it. For there is no one to redeem it besides ya; and I am after ya.” He said, “I will redeem it.”
  5. then Boaz said, “On the day ya buy the field from the hand of Naomi, ya must buy it also from Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead on his inheritance.”
  6. The near kinsman said, “I can’t redeem it for myself, lest I mar my own inheritance. grab my right of redemption for yourself; for I can’t redeem it.”
  7. now this was the custom in former time in Israel concerning redeeming and concerning exchanging, to confirm all things: a man took off his shoe, and gave it to his neighbor; and this was the way of attestation in Israel.
  8. So the near kinsman said to Boaz, “Buy it for yourself.” He took off his shoe.
  9. Boaz said to the elders, and to all the people, “ya are witnesses this day, that I have bought all that was Elimelech’s, and all that was Chilion’s and Mahlon’s, from the hand of Naomi.
 10. Moreover Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon, I have purchased to be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead on his inheritance, that the name of the dead not be cut off from among his brothers, and from the gate of his place. ya are witnesses this day.”
 11. All the people who were in the gate, and the elders, said, “We are witnesses. May Yahweh create the woman who has come through into your house like Rachel and like Leah, which two built the house of Israel; and treat ya worthily in Ephrathah, and be famous in Bethlehem.
 12. Let your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, of the seed which Yahweh shall hook it up ya of this young woman.”
 13. So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife; and he went in to her, and Yahweh gave her conception, and she bore a son.
 14. The women said to Naomi, “blessed up be Yahweh, who has not left ya this day without a near kinsman; and let his name be famous in Israel.
 15. He shall be to ya a restorer of life, and sustain ya in your old age, for your daughter-in-law, who loves ya, who is better to ya than seven sons, has borne him.”
 16. Naomi took the child, and laid it in her bosom, and became nurse to it.
 17. The women, her neighbors, gave him a name, saying, “there is a son born to Naomi;” and they named him Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David.
 18. now this is the history of the generations of Perez: Perez became the father of Hezron,
 19. and Hezron became the father of Ram, and Ram became the father of Amminadab,
 20. and Amminadab became the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon became the father of Salmon,
 21. and Salmon became the father of Boaz, and Boaz became the father of Obed,
 22. and Obed became the father of Jesse, and Jesse became the father of David.
