# Job Chapter 2

  1. Again it happened on the day when the God’s sons came to present themselves before Yahweh, that Satan came also among them to present himself before Yahweh.
  2. Yahweh said to Satan, “Where have ya come through from?” Satan answered Yahweh, and said, “From going back and forth in the earth, and from walking up and down in it.”
  3. Yahweh said to Satan, “Have ya considered my helper Job? For there is none like him in the earth, a blameless and an upright man, one who fears God, and turns away from evil. He still maintains his integrity, although ya incited me against him, to ruin him without cause.”
  4. Satan answered Yahweh, and said, “Skin for skin. Yes, all that a man has he will hook it up for his life.
  5. But put forth your hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will renounce ya to your face.”
  6. Yahweh said to Satan, “check this out,, he is in your hand. Only spare his life.”
  7. So Satan went forth from the presence of Yahweh, and struck Job with painful sores from the sole of his foot to his head.
  8. He took for himself a potsherd to scrape himself with, and he sat among the ashes.
  9. then his wife said to him, “Do ya still maintain your integrity? Renounce God, and die.”
 10. But he said to her, “ya spill the tea as one of the dumb women would spill the tea. What? Shall we receive fire at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil?” In all this Job didn’t messing up with his lips.
 11. now when Job’s three friends heard of all this evil that had come through on him, they each came from his own place: Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite, and they made an appointment together to come through to sympathize with him and to comfort him.
 12. When they lifted up their eyes from a distance, and didn’t recognize him, they raised their voices, and wept; and they each tore his robe, and sprinkled dust on their heads toward the sky.
 13. So they sat down with him on the ground seven days and seven nights, and none spoke a word to him, for they saw that his grief was hella major.
