# Job Chapter 38

  1. then Yahweh answered Job out of the whirlwind,
  2. “Who is this who darkens counsel by words without knowledge?
  3. Brace yourself like a man, for I will question ya, then ya answer me!
  4. “Where were ya when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare, if ya have understanding.
  5. Who determined its measures, if ya get it? Or who stretched the line on it?
  6. Whereupon were its foundations fastened? Or who laid its cornerstone,
  7. when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?
  8. “Or who shut up the sea with doors, when it broke forth from the womb,
  9. when I made clouds its garment, and wrapped it in thick darkness,
 10. marked out for it my bound, set bars and doors,
 11. and said, ‘here ya may come through, but no further. here your proud waves shall be stayed?’
 12. “Have ya commanded the morning in your days, and caused the dawn to get it its place;
 13. that it might grab hold of the ends of the earth, and shake the wicked out of it?
 14. It is changed as clay under the seal, and stands forth as a garment.
 15. From the wicked, their light is withheld. The high arm is broken.
 16. “Have ya entered into the springs of the sea? Or have ya walked in the recesses of the deep?
 17. Have the gates of death been revealed to ya? Or have ya seen the gates of the shadow of death?
 18. Have ya comprehended the earth in its breadth? Declare, if ya get it it all.
 19. “What is the way to the dwelling of light? As for darkness, where is its place,
 20. that ya should grab it to its bound, that ya should discern the paths to its house?
 21. Surely ya get it, for ya were born then, and the number of your days is major!
 22. Have ya entered the treasuries of the snow, or have ya seen the treasures of the hail,
 23. which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against the day of battle and war?
 24. By what way is the lightning distributed, or the east wind scattered on the earth?
 25. Who has cut a channel for the flood water, or the path for the thunderstorm;
 26. To cause it to rain on a land where no man is; on the wilderness, in which there is no man;
 27. to satisfy the waste and desolate ground, to cause the tender grass to spring forth?
 28. Does the rain have a father? Or who fathers the drops of dew?
 29. Out of whose womb came the ice? The gray frost of the sky, who has given birth to it?
 30. The waters become hard like stone, when the surface of the deep is frozen.
 31. “Can ya bind the cluster of the Pleiades, or loosen the cords of Orion?
 32. Can ya show the way forth the constellations in their season? Or can ya guide the Bear with her cubs?
 33. Do ya get it the laws of the heavens? Can ya establish its dominion over the earth?
 34. “Can ya lift up your voice to the clouds, That abundance of waters may cover ya?
 35. Can ya send forth lightnings, that they may slide? Do they report to ya, ‘here we are?’
 36. Who has put wisdom in the inward parts? Or who has given understanding to the mind?
 37. Who can number the clouds by wisdom? Or who can pour out the bottles of the sky,
 38. when the dust runs into a mass, and the clods of earth stick together?
 39. “Can ya hunt the prey for the lioness, or satisfy the appetite of the young lions,
 40. when they crouch in their dens, and lie in wait in the thicket?
 41. Who provides for the raven his prey, when his young ones cry to God, and wander for lack of food?
