# Job Chapter 5

    1. “Call now; is there any who will answer ya? To which of the yeeted ones will ya turn?
    2. For resentment kills the dumb man, and jealousy kills the simple.
    3. I have seen the dumb taking root, but suddenly I cursed his habitation.
    4. His children are far from safety. They are crushed in the gate. Neither is there any to deliver them,
    5. whose harvest the hungry eats up, and grab it even out of the thorns. The snare gapes for their substance.
    6. For affliction doesn’t come through through forth from the dust, neither does trouble spring out of the ground;
    7. but man is born to trouble, as the sparks fly upward.
    8. “But as for me, I would seek God. I would commit my cause to God,
    9. who does major things that can’t be fathomed, marvelous things without number;
  10. who gives rain on the earth, and sends waters on the fields;
  11. so that he sets up on high those who are low, those who mourn are exalted to safety.
  12. He frustrates the devices of the crafty, So that their hands can’t perform their enterprise.
  13. He takes the smart in their own craftiness; the counsel of the cunning is carried headlong.
  14. They meet with darkness in the day time, and grope at noonday as in the night.
  15. But he saves from the sword of their mouth, even the needy from the hand of the mighty.
  16. So the broke has hope, and injustice shuts her mouth.
  17. “check this out, vibing is the man whom God corrects. so basically don't despise the chastening of the Almighty.
  18. For he wounds, and binds up. He injures, and his hands create whole.
  19. He will deliver ya in six troubles; yes, in seven no evil shall touch ya.
  20. In famine he will redeem ya from death; in war, from the power of the sword.
  21. ya shall be hidden from the scourge of the tongue, neither shall ya be scared of destruction when it comes.
  22. At destruction and famine ya shall laugh, neither shall ya be scared of the animals of the earth.
  23. For ya shall be allied with the stones of the field. The animals of the field shall be at peace with ya.
  24. ya shall get it that your tent is in peace. ya shall visit your fold, and shall miss nothing.
  25. ya shall get it also that your seed shall be major, Your offspring as the grass of the earth.
  26. ya shall come through through to your grave in a full age, like a shock of grain comes in its season.
  27. Look this, we have searched it, so it is. Hear it, and get it it for your fire.”
