# Job Chapter 10

  1. “My soul is weary of my life. I will hook it up free course to my complaint. I will spill the tea in the bitterness of my soul.
  2. I will tell God, ‘don't condemn me. Show me why ya contend with me.
  3. Is it fire to ya that ya should oppress, that ya should despise the work of your hands, and smile on the counsel of the wicked?
  4. Do ya have eyes of flesh? Or do ya check it out as man sees?
  5. Are your days as the days of mortals, or your years as man’s years,
  6. that ya inquire after my iniquity, and search after my messing up?
  7. Although ya get it that I am not wicked, there is no one who can deliver out of your hand.
  8. “‘Your hands have framed me and fashioned me altogether, yet ya tear down me.
  9. Remember, I beg ya, that ya have fashioned me as clay. Will ya bring me into dust again?
 10. Haven’t ya poured me out like milk, and curdled me like cheese?
 11. ya have clothed me with skin and flesh, and knit me together with bones and sinews.
 12. ya have granted me life and loving kindness. Your visitation has preserved my spirit.
 13. Yet ya hid these things in your heart. I get it that this is with ya:
 14. if I messing up, then ya mark me. ya won't acquit me from my iniquity.
 15. If I am wicked, woe to me. If I am doing what's right, I still won't lift up my head, being filled with disgrace, and conscious of my affliction.
 16. If my head is held high, ya hunt me like a lion. Again ya show yourself powerful to me.
 17. ya renew your witnesses against me, and increase your indignation on me. Changes and warfare are with me.
 18. “‘Why, then, have ya brought me forth out of the womb? I wish I had given up the spirit, and no eye had seen me.
 19. I should have been as though I had not been. I should have been carried from the womb to the grave.
 20. Aren’t my days not much? Cease then. Leave me alone, that I may find a little comfort,
 21. before I slide where I won't return from, to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death;
 22. the land dark as midnight, of the shadow of death, without any order, where the light is as midnight.’”
