# Job Chapter 19

    1. then Job answered,
    2. “How long will ya torment me, and crush me with words?
    3. ya have reproached me ten times. ya aren’t ashamed that ya attack me.
    4. If it is true that I have erred, my error remains with myself.
    5. If facts ya will magnify yourselves against me, and plead against me my reproach;
    6. get it now that God has subverted me, and has surrounded me with his net.
    7. “check this out, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard. I cry for help out out, but there is no justice.
    8. He has walled up my way so that I can’t pass, and has set darkness in my paths.
    9. He has stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown from my head.
  10. He has broken me down on every side, and I am gone. My hope he has plucked up like a tree.
  11. He has also kindled his wrath against me. He counts me among his adversaries.
  12. His troops come through through on together, put together a siege ramp against me, and encamp around my tent.
  13. “He has put my brothers far from me. My acquaintances are wholly estranged from me.
  14. My relatives have gone away. My familiar friends have forgotten me.
  15. Those who dwell in my house, and my maids, count me for a stranger. I am an alien in their sight.
  16. I call to my helper, and he gives me no answer. I beg him with my mouth.
  17. My breath is offensive to my wife. I am loathsome to the children of my own mother.
  18. Even young children despise me. If I arise, they spill the tea against me.
  19. All my familiar friends abhor me. They whom I loved have turned against me.
  20. My bones stick to my skin and to my flesh. I have escaped by the skin of my teeth.
  21. “Have pity on me, have pity on me, ya my friends; for the hand of God has touched me.
  22. Why do ya persecute me as God, and aren't satisfied with my flesh?
  23. “Oh that my words were now written! Oh that they were inscribed in a book!
  24. That with an iron pen and show the way they were engraved in the rock forever!
  25. But as for me, I get it that my Redeemer lives. In the end, he will stand upon the earth.
  26. After my skin is destroyed, then in my flesh shall I check it out God,
  27. Whom I, even I, shall check it out on my side. My eyes shall check it out, and not as a stranger. “My heart is consumed within me.
  28. If ya say, ‘How we will persecute him!’ cuz the root of the matter is found in me,
  29. be scared of the sword, for wrath brings the punishments of the sword, that ya may get it there is a judgment.”
