# Job Chapter 22

    1. then Eliphaz the Temanite answered,
    2. “Can a man be profitable to God? Surely he who is smart is profitable to himself.
    3. Is it any pleasure to the Almighty, that ya are doing what's right? Or does it benefit him, that ya create your ways perfect?
    4. Is it for your piety that he reproves ya, that he enters with ya into judgment?
    5. Isn’t your wickedness major? Neither is there any end to your iniquities.
    6. For ya have taken pledges from your fam bro for nothing, and stripped the naked of their clothing.
    7. ya haven’t given water to the weary to drink, and ya have withheld bread from the hungry.
    8. But as for the mighty man, he had the earth. The honorable man, he lived in it.
    9. ya have sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken.
  10. so basically snares are around ya. Sudden fear troubles ya,
  11. or darkness, so that ya can not check it out, and floods of waters cover ya.
  12. “Isn’t God in the heights of heaven? check it out the height of the stars, how high they are!
  13. ya say, ‘What does God get it? Can he judge through the thick darkness?
  14. Thick clouds are a covering to him, so that he doesn’t check it out. He walks on the vault of the sky.’
  15. Will ya keep the old way, which wicked men have trodden,
  16. who were snatched away before their time, whose foundation was poured out as a stream,
  17. who said to God, ‘Depart from us;’ and, ‘What can the Almighty do for us?’
  18. Yet he filled their houses with fire things, but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.
  19. The doing what's right check it out it, and are glad. The innocent ridicule them,
  20. saying, ‘Surely those who rose up against us are cut off. The fire has consumed their remnant.’
  21. “Acquaint yourself with him, now, and be at peace. Thereby fire shall come through through to ya.
  22. Please receive instruction from his mouth, and lay up his words in your heart.
  23. If ya return to the Almighty, ya shall be built up, if ya put away unrighteousness far from your tents.
  24. Lay your treasure in the dust, the gold of Ophir among the stones of the brooks.
  25. The Almighty will be your treasure, and precious silver to ya.
  26. For then ya will delight yourself in the Almighty, and shall lift up your face to God.
  27. ya shall create your talking to God to him, and he will hear ya. ya shall pay your vows.
  28. ya shall also decree a thing, and it shall be established to ya. Light shall shine on your ways.
  29. When they cast down, ya shall say, ‘be lifted up.’ He will rescue the humble person.
  30. He will even deliver him who isn't innocent. Yes, he shall be delivered through the cleanness of your hands.”
