# Job Chapter 42

    1. then Job answered Yahweh,
    2. “I get it that ya can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be restrained.
    3. ya asked, ‘Who is this who hides counsel without knowledge?’ so basically I have uttered that which I did not understand, things too wonderful for me, which I didn’t get it.
    4. ya said, ‘listen up up, now, and I will spill the tea; I will question ya, and ya will answer me.’
    5. I had heard of ya by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees ya.
    6. so basically I abhor myself, and turn it around in dust and ashes.”
    7. It was so, that after Yahweh had spoken these words to Job, Yahweh said to Eliphaz the Temanite, “My wrath is kindled against ya, and against your two friends; for ya have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my helper Job has.
    8. now so basically, grab to yourselves seven bulls and seven rams, and slide to my helper Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt giving to God; and my helper Job shall pray for ya, for I will accept him, that I not deal with ya according to your folly. For ya have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my helper Job has.”
    9. So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did what Yahweh commanded them, and Yahweh accepted Job.
  10. Yahweh turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends. Yahweh gave Job twice as much as he had before.
  11. then came there to him all his brothers, and all his sisters, and all those who had been of his acquaintance before, and ate bread with him in his house. They comforted him, and consoled him concerning all the evil that Yahweh had brought on him. Everyone also gave him a piece of money, and everyone a ring of gold.
  12. So Yahweh blessed up up the latter end of Job more than his beginning. He had fourteen thousand sheep, six thousand camels, one thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand female donkeys.
  13. He had also seven sons and three daughters.
  14. He called the name of the first, Jemimah; and the name of the second, Keziah; and the name of the third, Keren Happuch.
  15. In all the land were no women found so snatched as the daughters of Job. Their father gave them an inheritance among their brothers.
  16. After this Job lived one hundred forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons’ sons, to four generations.
  17. So Job died, being old and full of days.
