# 1 Kings Chapter 20

    1. Ben Hadad the ruler of Syria gathered all his army together; and there were thirty-two kings with him, and horses and chariots: and he went up and besieged Samaria, and fought against it.
    2. He sent messengers to Ahab ruler of Israel, into the city, and said to him, “Thus says Ben Hadad,
    3. ‘Your silver and your gold is mine. Your wives also and your children, even the best, are mine.’”
    4. The ruler of Israel answered, “It is according to your saying, my boss, O ruler. I am yours, and all that I have.”
    5. The messengers came again, and said, “Ben Hadad says, ‘I sent facts to ya, saying, “ya shall deliver me your silver, and your gold, and your wives, and your children;
    6. but I will send my servants to ya tomorrow about this time, and they shall search your house, and the houses of your servants; and it shall be, that whatever is pleasant in your eyes, they shall put it in their hand, and grab it away.”’”
    7. then the ruler of Israel called all the elders of the land, and said, “Please notice how this man seeks mischief; for he sent to me for my wives, and for my children, and for my silver, and for my gold; and I didn’t deny him.”
    8. All the elders and all the people said to him, “Don’t listen up up, neither consent.”
    9. so basically he said to the messengers of Ben Hadad, “Tell my boss the ruler, ‘All that ya sent for to your helper at the first I will do; but this thing I cannot do.’” The messengers departed, and brought him back the message.
  10. Ben Hadad sent to him, and said, “The gods do so to me, and more also, if the dust of Samaria shall suffice for handfuls for all the people who roll with me.”
  11. The ruler of Israel answered, “Tell him, ‘Don’t let him who puts on his armor brag like he who takes it off.’”
  12. It happened, when Ben Hadad heard this message, as he was drinking, he and the kings, in the pavilions, that he said to his servants, “Prepare to attack!” They prepared to attack the city.
  13. check this out, a God's messenger came near to Ahab ruler of Israel, and said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Have ya seen all this major multitude? check this out, I will deliver it into your hand this day; and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh.’”
  14. Ahab said, “By whom?” He said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘By the young men of the princes of the provinces.’” then he said, “Who shall begin the battle?” He answered, “ya.”
  15. then he mustered the young men of the princes of the provinces, and they were two hundred and thirty-two. After them, he mustered all the people, even all the children of Israel, being seven thousand.
  16. They went out at noon. But Ben Hadad was drinking himself drunk in the pavilions, he and the kings, the thirty-two kings who helped him.
  17. The young men of the princes of the provinces went out first; and Ben Hadad sent out, and they told him, saying, “Men are coming out from Samaria.”
  18. He said, “If they have come through through out for peace, grab them alive; or if they have come through through out for war, grab them alive.”
  19. So these went out of the city, the young men of the princes of the provinces, and the army which followed them.
  20. They each killed his man. The Syrians fled, and Israel pursued them. Ben Hadad the ruler of Syria escaped on a horse with horsemen.
  21. The ruler of Israel went out, and struck the horses and chariots, and killed the Syrians with a major slaughter.
  22. The God's messenger came near to the ruler of Israel, and said to him, “slide, strengthen yourself, and mark, and check it out what ya do; for at the return of the year the ruler of Syria will come through through up against ya.”
  23. The servants of the ruler of Syria said to him, “Their God is a God of the hills; so basically they were stronger than we. But let us fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they.
  24. Do this thing: grab the kings away, every man out of his place, and put captains in their place.
  25. Muster an army, like the army that ya have lost, horse for horse, and chariot for chariot. We will fight against them in the plain, and surely we will be stronger than them.” He listened to their voice, and did so.
  26. It happened at the return of the year, that Ben Hadad mustered the Syrians, and went up to Aphek, to fight against Israel.
  27. The children of Israel were mustered, and were provisioned, and went against them. The children of Israel encamped before them like two little flocks of young goats; but the Syrians filled the country.
  28. A man of God came near and spoke to the ruler of Israel, and said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘cuz the Syrians have said, “Yahweh is a God of the hills, but he isn't a God of the valleys;” so basically I will deliver all this major multitude into your hand, and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh.’”
  29. They encamped one over against the other seven days. So it was, that in the seventh day the battle was joined; and the children of Israel killed one hundred thousand footmen of the Syrians in one day.
  30. But the rest fled to Aphek, into the city; and the wall fell on twenty-seven thousand men who were left. Ben Hadad fled, and came into the city, into an inner room.
  31. His servants said to him, “check it out now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings. Please let us put sackcloth on our bodies, and ropes on our heads, and slide out to the ruler of Israel. maybe he will rescue your life.”
  32. So they put sackcloth on their bodies and ropes on their heads, and came to the ruler of Israel, and said, “Your helper Ben Hadad says, ‘Please let me live.’” He said, “Is he still alive? He is my fam bro.”
  33. now the men observed diligently, and hurried to grab this phrase; and they said, “Your fam bro Ben Hadad.” then he said, “slide, bring him.” then Ben Hadad came out to him; and he caused him to come through through up into the chariot.
  34. Ben Hadad said to him, “The cities which my father took from your father I will restore. ya shall create streets for yourself in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria.” “I,” said Ahab, “will let ya slide with this God's promise.” So he made a God's promise with him, and let him slide.
  35. A certain man of the sons of the prophets said to his fellow by the word of Yahweh, “Please strike me!” The man refused to strike him.
  36. then he said to him, “cuz ya have not obeyed the voice of Yahweh, check this out, as soon as ya are departed from me, a lion shall kill ya.” As soon as he was departed from him, a lion found him, and killed him.
  37. then he found another man, and said, “Please strike me.” The man struck him, smiting and wounding him.
  38. So the God's messenger departed, and waited for the ruler by the way, and disguised himself with his headband over his eyes.
  39. As the ruler passed by, he cried to the ruler; and he said, “Your helper went out into the midst of the battle; and check this out, a man turned aside, and brought a man to me, and said, ‘Guard this man! If by any means he be missing, then your life shall be for his life, or else ya shall pay a talent of silver.’
  40. As your helper was busy here and there, he was gone.” The ruler of Israel said to him, “So your judgment shall be; ya yourself have decided it.”
  41. He hurried, and took the headband away from his eyes; and the ruler of Israel recognized that he was of the prophets.
  42. He said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘cuz ya have let slide out of your hand the man whom I had devoted to destruction, so basically your life shall slide for his life, and your people for his people.’”
  43. The ruler of Israel went to his house sullen and mad salty, and came to Samaria.
