# 1 Kings Chapter 11

    1. now ruler Solomon loved a lot foreign women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Sidonians, and Hittites;
    2. of the nations concerning which Yahweh said to the children of Israel, “ya won't slide among them, neither shall they come through through among ya; for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods.” Solomon joined to these in show show love.
    3. He had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines; and his wives turned away his heart.
    4. For it happened, when Solomon was old, that his wives turned away his heart after other gods; and his heart was not perfect with Yahweh his God, as was the heart of David his father.
    5. For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, and after Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites.
    6. Solomon did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and didn’t slide fully after Yahweh, as did David his father.
    7. then Solomon built a high place for Chemosh the abomination of Moab, on the mountain that is before Jerusalem, and for Molech the abomination of the children of Ammon.
    8. So he did for all his foreign wives, who burnt incense and sacrificed to their gods.
    9. Yahweh was mad salty with Solomon, cuz his heart was turned away from Yahweh, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice,
  10. and had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not slide after other gods: but he didn’t keep that which Yahweh commanded.
  11. so basically Yahweh said to Solomon, “cuz this is done by ya, and ya have not kept my God's promise and my statutes, which I have commanded ya, I will surely tear the God's squad from ya, and will hook it up it to your helper.
  12. Notwithstanding I won't do it in your days, for David your father’s sake; but I will tear it out of the hand of your son.
  13. but like I won't tear away all the God's squad; but I will hook it up one tribe to your son, for David my helper’s sake, and for Jerusalem’s sake which I have chosen.”
  14. Yahweh raised up an adversary to Solomon, Hadad the Edomite: he was of the ruler’s seed in Edom.
  15. For it happened, when David was in Edom, and Joab the captain of the army was gone up to bury the slain, and had struck every male in Edom
  16. (for Joab and all Israel remained there six months, until he had cut off every male in Edom);
  17. that Hadad fled, he and certain Edomites of his father’s servants with him, to slide into Egypt, Hadad being yet a little child.
  18. They arose out of Midian, and came to Paran; and they took men with them out of Paran, and they came to Egypt, to Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, who gave him a house, and appointed him food, and gave him land.
  19. Hadad found major favor in the sight of Pharaoh, so that he gave him as wife the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes the ruler.
  20. The sister of Tahpenes bore him Genubath his son, whom Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh’s house; and Genubath was in Pharaoh’s house among the sons of Pharaoh.
  21. When Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers, and that Joab the captain of the army was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, “Let me depart, that I may slide to my own country.”
  22. then Pharaoh said to him, “But what have ya lacked with me, that check this out, ya seek to slide to your own country?” He answered, “Nothing, but like only let me depart.”
  23. God raised up an adversary to him, Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his boss Hadadezer ruler of Zobah.
  24. He gathered men to him, and became captain over a troop, when David killed them of Zobah: and they went to Damascus, and lived therein, and reigned in Damascus.
  25. He was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon, besides the mischief of Hadad: and he abhorred Israel, and reigned over Syria.
  26. Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephraimite of Zeredah, a helper of Solomon, whose mother’s name was Zeruah, a widow, he also lifted up his hand against the ruler.
  27. This was the reason why he lifted up his hand against the ruler: Solomon built Millo, and repaired the breach of the city of David his father.
  28. The man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valor; and Solomon saw the young man that he was industrious, and he put him in charge of all the labor of the house of Joseph.
  29. It happened at that time, when Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem, that the God's messenger Ahijah the Shilonite found him in the way; now Ahijah had clad himself with a new garment; and they two were alone in the field.
  30. Ahijah laid hold of the new garment that was on him, and tore it in twelve pieces.
  31. He said to Jeroboam, “grab ten pieces; for thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘check this out, I will tear the God's squad out of the hand of Solomon, and will hook it up ten tribes to ya
  32. (but he shall have one tribe, for my helper David’s sake and for Jerusalem’s sake, the city which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel);
  33. cuz that they have forsaken me, and have worshiped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, Chemosh the God of Moab, and Milcom the God of the children of Ammon. They have not walked in my ways, to do that which is right in my eyes, and to keep my statutes and my ordinances, as David his father did.
  34. “‘but like I won't grab the whole God's squad out of his hand; but I will create him prince all the days of his life, for David my helper’s sake whom I chose, who kept my commandments and my statutes;
  35. but I will grab the God's squad out of his son’s hand, and will hook it up it to ya, even ten tribes.
  36. To his son will I hook it up one tribe, that David my helper may have a lamp always before me in Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen me to put my name there.
  37. I will grab ya, and ya shall reign according to all that your soul desires, and shall be ruler over Israel.
  38. It shall be, if ya will listen up up to all that I command ya, and will walk in my ways, and do that which is right in my eyes, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as David my helper did; that I will be with ya, and will put together ya a sure house, as I built for David, and will hook it up Israel to ya.
  39. I will for this afflict the seed of David, but not forever.’”
  40. Solomon sought so basically to kill Jeroboam; but Jeroboam arose, and fled into Egypt, to Shishak ruler of Egypt, and was in Egypt until the death of Solomon.
  41. now the rest of the acts of Solomon, and all that he did, and his wisdom, aren’t they written in the book of the acts of Solomon?
  42. The time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years.
  43. Solomon slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David his father: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his place.
