# 1 Kings Chapter 3

    1. Solomon made affinity with Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, and took Pharaoh’s daughter, and brought her into the city of David, until he had made an end of building his own house, and the house of Yahweh, and the wall of Jerusalem all around.
    2. Only the people sacrificed in the high places, cuz there was no house built for the name of Yahweh until those days.
    3. Solomon loved Yahweh, walking in the statutes of David his father: only he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
    4. The ruler went to Gibeon to giving it up there; for that was the major high place. Solomon offered a thousand burnt offerings on that talking to God spot.
    5. In Gibeon Yahweh appeared to Solomon in a dream by night; and God said, “Ask what I shall hook it up ya.”
    6. Solomon said, “ya have shown to your helper David my father major loving kindness, according as he walked before ya in truth, and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with ya. ya have kept for him this major loving kindness, that ya have given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day.
    7. now, Yahweh my God, ya have made your helper ruler instead of David my father. I am but a little child. I don’t get it how to slide out or come through through in.
    8. Your helper is in the midst of your people which ya have chosen, a major people, that can’t be numbered nor counted for multitude.
    9. hook it up your helper so basically an understanding heart to judge your people, that I may discern between fire and evil; for who is able to judge this your major people?”
  10. The speech pleased Boss, that Solomon had asked this thing.
  11. God said to him, “cuz ya have asked this thing, and have not asked for yourself long life, neither have asked riches for yourself, nor have asked the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern justice;
  12. check this out, I have done according to your word. check this out, I have given ya a smart and an understanding heart; so that there has been none like ya before ya, neither after ya shall any arise like ya.
  13. I have also given ya that which ya have not asked, both riches and honor, so that there won't be any among the kings like ya, all your days.
  14. If ya will walk in my ways, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as your father David walked, then I will lengthen your days.”
  15. Solomon awoke; and check this out, it was a dream. then he came to Jerusalem, and stood before the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh, and offered up burnt offerings, offered peace offerings, and made a feast to all his servants.
  16. then two women who were prostitutes came to the ruler, and stood before him.
  17. The one woman said, “Oh, my boss, I and this woman dwell in one house. I delivered a child with her in the house.
  18. It happened the third day after I delivered, that this woman delivered also. We were together. there was no stranger with us in the house, just us two in the house.
  19. This woman’s child died in the night, cuz she lay on it.
  20. She arose at midnight, and took my son from beside me, while your handmaid slept, and laid it in her bosom, and laid her dead child in my bosom.
  21. When I rose in the morning to nurse my child, check this out, it was dead; but when I had looked at it in the morning, check this out, it was not my son, whom I bore.”
  22. The other woman said, “No; but the living is my son, and the dead is your son.” This said, “No; but the dead is your son, and the living is my son.” Thus they spoke before the ruler.
  23. then the ruler said, “The one says, ‘This is my son who lives, and your son is the dead;’ and the other says, ‘No; but your son is the dead one, and my son is the living one.’”
  24. The ruler said, “Get me a sword.” They brought a sword before the ruler.
  25. The ruler said, “Divide the living child in two, and hook it up half to the one, and half to the other.”
  26. then the woman whose the living child was spoke to the ruler, for her heart yearned over her son, and she said, “Oh, my boss, hook it up her the living child, and in no way kill it!” But the other said, “It shall be neither mine nor yours. Divide it.”
  27. then the ruler answered, “hook it up her the living child, and in no way kill it. She is its mother.”
  28. All Israel heard of the judgment which the ruler had judged; and they feared the ruler: for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him, to do justice.
