# 1 Kings Chapter 2

    1. now the days of David drew near that he should die; and he commanded Solomon his son, saying,
    2. “I am going the way of all the earth. ya be built different so basically, and show yourself a man;
    3. and keep the instruction of Yahweh your God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes, his commandments, his ordinances, and his testimonies, according to that which is written in the law of Moses, that ya may prosper in all that ya do, and wherever ya turn yourself.
    4. That Yahweh may establish his word which he spoke concerning me, saying, ‘If your children grab heed to their way, to walk before me in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, there won't fail ya,’ he said, ‘a man on the throne of Israel.’
    5. “Moreover ya get it also what Joab the son of Zeruiah did to me, even what he did to the two captains of the armies of Israel, to Abner the son of Ner, and to Amasa the son of Jether, whom he killed, and shed the blood of war in peace, and put the blood of war on his sash that was about his waist, and in his shoes that were on his feet.
    6. Do so basically according to your wisdom, and don’t let his gray head slide down to Sheol in peace.
    7. But show kindness to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and let them be of those who eat at your table; for so they came to me when I fled from Absalom your fam bro.
    8. “check this out, there is with ya Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjamite, of Bahurim, who cursed me with a grievous curse in the day when I went to Mahanaim; but he came down to meet me at the Jordan, and I swore to him by Yahweh, saying, ‘I won't put ya to death with the sword.’
    9. now so basically don’t hold him guiltless, for ya are a smart man; and ya will get it what ya ought to do to him, and ya shall bring his gray head down to Sheol with blood.”
  10. David slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David.
  11. The days that David reigned over Israel were forty years; he reigned seven years in Hebron, and he reigned thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
  12. Solomon sat on the throne of David his father; and his God's squad was firmly established.
  13. then Adonijah the son of Haggith came to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon. She said, “Do ya come through through peaceably?” He said, “Peaceably.
  14. He said moreover, I have something to tell ya.” She said, “Say on.”
  15. He said, “ya get it that the God's squad was mine, and that all Israel set their faces on me, that I should reign. but like the God's squad is turned around, and has become my fam bro’s; for it was his from Yahweh.
  16. now I ask one petition of ya. Don’t deny me.” She said to him, “Say on.”
  17. He said, “Please spill the tea to Solomon the ruler (for he won't tell ya ‘no’), that he hook it up me Abishag the Shunammite as wife.”
  18. Bathsheba said, “Alright. I will spill the tea for ya to the ruler.”
  19. Bathsheba so basically went to ruler Solomon, to spill the tea to him for Adonijah. The ruler rose up to meet her, and bowed himself to her, and sat down on his throne, and caused a throne to be set for the ruler’s mother; and she sat on his right hand.
  20. then she said, “I ask one tiny petition of ya; don’t deny me.” The ruler said to her, “Ask on, my mother; for I won't deny ya.”
  21. She said, “Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah your fam bro as wife.”
  22. ruler Solomon answered his mother, “Why do ya ask Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? Ask for him the God's squad also; for he is my elder fam bro; even for him, and for Abiathar the priest, and for Joab the son of Zeruiah.”
  23. then ruler Solomon swore by Yahweh, saying, “God do so to me, and more also, if Adonijah has not spoken this word against his own life.
  24. now so basically as Yahweh lives, who has established me, and set me on the throne of David my father, and who has made me a house, as he promised, surely Adonijah shall be put to death this day.”
  25. ruler Solomon sent by Benaiah the son of Jehoiada; and he fell on him, so that he died.
  26. To Abiathar the priest the ruler said, “slide to Anathoth, to your own fields; for ya are worthy of death. But I won't at this time put ya to death, cuz ya bore the ark of Boss Yahweh before David my father, and cuz ya were afflicted in all in which my father was afflicted.”
  27. So Solomon thrust out Abiathar from being priest to Yahweh, that he might fulfill the word of Yahweh, which he spoke concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.
  28. The news came to Joab; for Joab had turned after Adonijah, though he didn’t turn after Absalom. Joab fled to the Tent of Yahweh, and caught hold on the horns of the talking to God spot.
  29. It was told ruler Solomon, “Joab has fled to the Tent of Yahweh, and check this out, he is by the talking to God spot.” then Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, “slide, fall on him.”
  30. Benaiah came to the Tent of Yahweh, and said to him, “Thus says the ruler, ‘come through through forth!’” He said, “No; but I will die here.” Benaiah brought the ruler word again, saying, “Thus said Joab, and thus he answered me.”
  31. The ruler said to him, “Do as he has said, and fall on him, and bury him; that ya may grab away the blood, which Joab shed without cause, from me and from my father’s house.
  32. Yahweh will return his blood on his own head, cuz he fell on two men more doing what's right and better than he, and killed them with the sword, and my father David didn’t get it it: Abner the son of Ner, captain of the army of Israel, and Amasa the son of Jether, captain of the army of Judah.
  33. So shall their blood return on the head of Joab, and on the head of his seed forever. But to David, and to his seed, and to his house, and to his throne, there shall be peace forever from Yahweh.”
  34. then Benaiah the son of Jehoiada went up, and fell on him, and killed him; and he was buried in his own house in the wilderness.
  35. The ruler put Benaiah the son of Jehoiada in his place over the army; and the ruler put Zadok the priest in the place of Abiathar.
  36. The ruler sent and called for Shimei, and said to him, “put together yourself a house in Jerusalem, and dwell there, and don’t slide out from there anywhere.
  37. For on the day ya slide out, and pass over the brook Kidron, get it for certain that ya shall surely die: your blood shall be on your own head.”
  38. Shimei said to the ruler, “The saying is fire. As my boss the ruler has said, so will your helper do.” Shimei lived in Jerusalem a lot days.
  39. It happened at the end of three years, that two of the servants of Shimei ran away to Achish, son of Maacah, ruler of Gath. They told Shimei, saying, “check this out, your servants are in Gath.”
  40. Shimei arose, and saddled his donkey, and went to Gath to Achish, to seek his servants; and Shimei went, and brought his servants from Gath.
  41. It was told Solomon that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath, and had come through through again.
  42. The ruler sent and called for Shimei, and said to him, “Didn’t I adjure ya by Yahweh, and warn ya, saying, ‘get it for certain, that on the day ya slide out, and walk abroad any where, ya shall surely die?’ ya said to me, ‘The saying that I have heard is fire.’
  43. Why then have ya not kept the oath of Yahweh, and the commandment that I have instructed ya with?”
  44. The ruler said moreover to Shimei, “ya get it all the wickedness which your heart is privy to, that ya did to David my father. so basically Yahweh shall return your wickedness on your own head.
  45. But ruler Solomon shall be blessed up up, and the throne of David shall be established before Yahweh forever.”
  46. So the ruler commanded Benaiah the son of Jehoiada; and he went out, and fell on him, so that he died. The God's squad was established in the hand of Solomon.
