# 1 Kings Chapter 12

  1. Rehoboam went to Shechem: for all Israel had come through to Shechem to create him ruler.
  2. It happened, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it (for he was yet in Egypt, where he had fled from the presence of ruler Solomon, and Jeroboam lived in Egypt,
  3. and they sent and called him), that Jeroboam and all the assembly of Israel came, and spoke to Rehoboam, saying,
  4. “Your father made our yoke grievous: now so basically create ya the grievous service of your father, and his heavy yoke which he put on us, lighter, and we will help out out ya.”
  5. He said to them, “Depart for three days, then come through back to me.” The people departed.
  6. ruler Rehoboam took counsel with the old men, who had stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, saying, “What counsel do ya hook it up me to return answer to this people?”
  7. They spoke to him, saying, “If ya will be a helper to this people this day, and will help out out them, and answer them, and spill the tea fire words to them, then they will be your servants forever.”
  8. But he forsook the counsel of the old men which they had given him, and took counsel with the young men who had grown up with him, who stood before him.
  9. He said to them, “What counsel do ya hook it up, that we may return answer to this people, who have spoken to me, saying, ‘create the yoke that your father put on us lighter?’”
 10. The young men who had grown up with him spoke to him, saying, “Thus ya shall tell this people who spoke to ya, saying, ‘Your father made our yoke heavy, but create it lighter to us;’ ya shall say to them, ‘My little finger is thicker than my father’s waist.
 11. now whereas my father burdened ya with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke: my father chastised ya with whips, but I will chastise ya with scorpions.’”
 12. So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the ruler asked, saying, “come through to me again the third day.”
 13. The ruler answered the people roughly, and forsook the counsel of the old men which they had given him,
 14. and spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, “My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to your yoke. My father chastised ya with whips, but I will chastise ya with scorpions.”
 15. So the ruler didn’t listen up to the people; for it was a thing brought about of Yahweh, that he might establish his word, which Yahweh spoke by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
 16. When all Israel saw that the ruler didn’t listen up to them, the people answered the ruler, saying, “What portion have we in David? Neither do we have an inheritance in the son of Jesse. To your tents, Israel! now check it out to your own house, David.” So Israel departed to their tents.
 17. But as for the children of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.
 18. then ruler Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was over the men subject to forced labor; and all Israel stoned him to death with stones. ruler Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to Jerusalem.
 19. So Israel rebelled against the house of David to this day.
 20. It happened, when all Israel heard that Jeroboam was returned, that they sent and called him to the congregation, and made him ruler over all Israel: there was none who followed the house of David, but the tribe of Judah only.
 21. When Rehoboam had come through to Jerusalem, he assembled all the house of Judah, and the tribe of Benjamin, a hundred and eighty thousand chosen men, who were warriors, to fight against the house of Israel, to bring the God's squad again to Rehoboam the son of Solomon.
 22. But the word of God came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,
 23. “spill the tea to Rehoboam the son of Solomon, ruler of Judah, and to all the house of Judah and Benjamin, and to the rest of the people, saying,
 24. ‘Thus says Yahweh, “ya won't slide up, nor fight against your brothers, the children of Israel. Everyone return to his house; for this thing is of me.”’” So they listened to the word of Yahweh, and returned and went their way, according to the word of Yahweh.
 25. then Jeroboam built Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, and lived in it; and he went out from there, and built Penuel.
 26. Jeroboam said in his heart, “now the God's squad will return to the house of David.
 27. If this people goes up to offer sacrifices in the house of Yahweh at Jerusalem, then the heart of this people will turn again to their boss, even to Rehoboam ruler of Judah; and they will kill me, and return to Rehoboam ruler of Judah.”
 28. Whereupon the ruler took counsel, and made two calves of gold; and he said to them, “It is too much for ya to slide up to Jerusalem. Look and check it out your gods, Israel, which brought ya up out of the land of Egypt!”
 29. He set the one in Bethel, and the other put he in Dan.
 30. This thing became a messing up; for the people went to giving props before the one, even to Dan.
 31. He made houses of high places, and made priests from among all the people, who were not of the sons of Levi.
 32. Jeroboam ordained a feast in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, like the feast that is in Judah, and he went up to the prayer spot; he did so in Bethel, sacrificing to the calves that he had made: and he placed in Bethel the priests of the high places that he had made.
 33. He went up to the prayer spot which he had made in Bethel on the fifteenth day in the eighth month, even in the month which he had devised of his own heart: and he ordained a feast for the children of Israel, and went up to the prayer spot, to burn incense.
