# Colossians Chapter 3

  1. If then ya were raised together with the huge set apart, seek the things that are above, where the huge set apart is, seated on the right hand of God.
  2. Set your mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are on the earth.
  3. For ya died, and your life is hidden with the huge set apart in God.
  4. When the huge set apart, our life, is revealed, then ya will also be revealed with him in glory.
  5. Put to death so basically your members which are on the earth: sexual immorality, uncleanness, depraved passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry;
  6. for which things’ sake the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience.
  7. ya also once walked in those, when ya lived in them;
  8. but now ya also put them all away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and shameful speaking out of your mouth.
  9. Don’t lie to one another, seeing that ya have put off the old man with his doings,
 10. and have put on the new man, who is being renewed in knowledge after the image of his Creator,
 11. where there can’t be Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondservant, freeman; but the huge set apart is all, and in all.
 12. Put on so basically, as God’s chosen ones, set apart and beloved, a heart of compassion, kindness, lowliness, humility, and perseverance;
 13. bearing with one another, and forgiving each other, if any man has a complaint against any; even as the huge set apart forgave ya, so ya also do.
 14. Above all these things, walk in show love, which is the bond of perfection.
 15. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also ya were called in one body; and be thankful.
 16. Let the word of the huge set apart dwell in ya richly; in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing with God's show love in your heart to the boss.
 17. Whatever ya do, in word or in deed, do all in the name of the boss Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father, through him.
 18. Wives, be in subjection to your husbands, as is fitting in the boss.
 19. Husbands, show love your wives, and don’t be bitter against them.
 20. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this pleases the boss.
 21. Fathers, don’t provoke your children, so that they won’t be discouraged.
 22. Servants, obey in all things those who are your masters according to the flesh, not just when they are looking, as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God.
 23. And whatever ya do, work heartily, as for the boss, and not for men,
 24. knowing that from the boss ya will receive the reward of the inheritance; for ya help out out the boss the huge set apart.
 25. But he who does wrong will receive again for the wrong that he has done, and there is no partiality.
