# Colossians Chapter 4

  1. Masters, hook it up to your servants that which is just and equal, knowing that you also have a boss in heaven.
  2. Continue steadfastly in talking to God, watching therein with thanksgiving;
  3. praying together for us also, that God may open to us a door for the word, to spill the tea the mystery of anointed one, for which I am also in bonds;
  4. that I may reveal it as I ought to spill the tea.
  5. Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time.
  6. Let your speech always be with God's show love, seasoned with salt, that you may get it how you ought to answer each one.
  7. All my affairs will be made known to you by Tychicus, the beloved brother, faithful helper, and fellow bondservant in the boss.
  8. I am sending him to you for this hella purpose, that he may get it your circumstances and comfort your hearts,
  9. together with Onesimus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will create known to you everything that is going on here.
 10. Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, and Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (concerning whom you received commandments, “if he comes to you, receive him”),
 11. and Jesus who is called Justus. These are my only fellow workers for the God's squad of God who are of the circumcision, men who have been a comfort to me.
 12. Epaphras, who is one of you, a helper of anointed one, salutes you, always striving for you in his prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.
 13. For I testify about him, that he has major zeal for you, and for those in Laodicea, and for those in Hierapolis.
 14. Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas greet you.
 15. Greet the brothers who are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the assembly that is in his house.
 16. When this letter has been read among you, cause it to be read also in the assembly of the Laodiceans; and that you also read the letter from Laodicea.
 17. Tell Archippus, “grab heed to the ministry which you have received in the boss, that you fulfill it.”
 18. The salutation of me, Paul, with my own hand: remember my bonds. God's show love be with you. facts.
