# Hebrews Chapter 2

  1. so basically we ought to pay greater attention to the things that were heard, lest perhaps we drift away.
  2. For if the word spoken through angels proved steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense;
  3. how will we escape if we neglect so major a getting saved—which at the first having been spoken through the boss, was confirmed to us by those who heard;
  4. God also testifying with them, both by signs and wonders, by various works of power, and by gifts of the set apart Spirit, according to his own will?
  5. For he didn’t subject the world to come through, of which we spill the tea, to angels.
  6. But one has somewhere testified, saying, “What is man, that you think of him? Or the son of man, that you care for him?
  7. You made him a little lower than the angels. You crowned him with glory and honor.
  8. You have put all things in subjection under his feet.” For in that he subjected all things to him, he left nothing that is not subject to him. But now we don’t check it out all things subjected to him, yet.
  9. But we check it out him who has been made a little lower than the angels, Jesus, cuz of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, that by the God's show love of God he should taste of death for everyone.
 10. For it became him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing a lot children to glory, to create the author of their getting saved perfect through sufferings.
 11. For both he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified are all from one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
 12. saying, “I will declare your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation I will sing your praise.”
 13. Again, “I will put my trust in him.” Again, “check this out, here I am with the children whom God has given me.”
 14. Since then the children have shared in flesh and blood, he also himself in the same way partook of the same, that through death he might bring to nothing him who had the power of death, that is, the devil,
 15. and might deliver all of them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
 16. For most for sure, he doesn’t hook it up help out to angels, but he gives help out to the seed of Abraham.
 17. so basically he was obligated in all things to be made like his brothers, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to create atonement for the sins of the people.
 18. For in that he himself has suffered being tempted, he is able to help out those who are tempted.
