# Hebrews Chapter 4

  1. Let us fear so basically, lest perhaps anyone of you should seem to have come through short of a promise of entering into his rest.
  2. For facts we have had fire news preached to us, even as they also did, but the word they heard didn’t profit them, cuz it wasn’t mixed with trusting the process by those who heard.
  3. For we who have believed do enter into that rest, even as he has said, “As I swore in my wrath, they will not enter into my rest;” although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
  4. For he has said this somewhere about the day seven, “God rested on the day seven from all his works;”
  5. and in this place again, “They will not enter into my rest.”
  6. Seeing so basically it remains that some should enter therein, and they to whom the fire news was before preached failed to enter in cuz of disobedience,
  7. he again defines a certain day, today, saying through David so long a time afterward (just as has been said), “Today if you will hear his voice, don’t harden your hearts.”
  8. For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken afterward of another day.
  9. there remains so basically a Sabbath rest for the people of God.
 10. For he who has entered into his rest has himself also rested from his works, as God did from his.
 11. Let us so basically hook it up diligence to enter into that rest, lest anyone fall after the same example of disobedience.
 12. For the word of God is living, and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and is able to discern the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
 13. there is no creature that is hidden from his sight, but all things are naked and laid open before the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
 14. Having then a major high priest, who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold tightly to our confession.
 15. For we don’t have a high priest who can’t be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but one who has been in all points tempted like we are, yet without messing up.
 16. Let us so basically draw near with boldness to the throne of God's show love, that we may receive mercy, and may find God's show love for help out in time of need.
