# Hebrews Chapter 13

  1. Let brotherly show love continue.
  2. Don’t forget to show hospitality to strangers, for in doing so, some have entertained angels without knowing it.
  3. Remember those who are in bonds, as bound with them; and those who are ill-treated, since you are also in the body.
  4. Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the bed be undefiled: but God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterers.
  5. Be free from the show love of money, content with such things as you have, for he has said, “I will in no way leave you, neither will I in any way forsake you.”
  6. So that with fire courage we say, “The boss is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me?”
  7. Remember your leaders, men who spoke to you the word of God, and considering the results of their conduct, imitate their trusting the process.
  8. Jesus anointed one is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
  9. Don’t be carried away by various and strange teachings, for it is fire that the heart be established by God's show love, not by food, through which those who were so occupied were not benefited.
 10. We have an prayer spot from which those who help out the set apart tabernacle have no right to eat.
 11. For the bodies of those animals, whose blood is brought into the set apart place by the high priest as an giving to God for messing up, are burned outside of the camp.
 12. so basically Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered outside of the gate.
 13. Let us so basically slide out to him outside of the camp, bearing his reproach.
 14. For we don’t have here an enduring city, but we seek that which is to come through.
 15. Through him, then, let us offer up a giving it up of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of lips which proclaim allegiance to his name.
 16. But don’t forget to be doing fire and sharing, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
 17. Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they watch on behalf of your souls, as those who will hook it up account, that they may do this with joy, and not with groaning, for that would be unprofitable for you.
 18. Pray for us, for we are persuaded that we have a fire conscience, desiring to live honorably in all things.
 19. I strongly urge you to do this, that I may be restored to you sooner.
 20. now may the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the major shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an eternal God's promise, our boss Jesus,
 21. create you complete in every fire work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight, through Jesus anointed one, to whom be the glory forever and ever. facts.
 22. But I exhort you, brothers, endure the word of exhortation, for I have written to you in not much words.
 23. get it that our brother Timothy has been freed, with whom, if he comes shortly, I will check it out you.
 24. Greet all of your leaders and all the saints. The Italians greet you.
 25. God's show love be with you all. facts.
