# Hebrews Chapter 6

  1. so basically leaving the teaching of the first principles of the huge set apart, let us press on to perfection—not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works, of trusting the process toward God,
  2. of the teaching of baptisms, of laying on of hands, of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
  3. This will we do, if God permits.
  4. For concerning those who were once enlightened and tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the set apart Spirit,
  5. and tasted the fire word of God, and the powers of the age to come through,
  6. and then fell away, it is impossible to renew them again to repentance; seeing they crucify the Son of God for themselves again, and put him to open shame.
  7. For the land which has drunk the rain that comes a lot on it, and brings forth a crop suitable for them for whose sake it is also tilled, receives blessing from God;
  8. but if it bears thorns and thistles, it is rejected and near being cursed, whose end is to be burned.
  9. But, beloved, we are persuaded of better things for ya, and things that accompany getting saved, even though we spill the tea like this.
 10. For God isn't unrighteous, so as to forget your work and the labor of show love which ya showed toward his name, in that ya served the set apart fam, and still do help out out them.
 11. We desire that each one of ya may show the same diligence to the fullness of hope even to the end,
 12. that ya won’t be sluggish, but imitators of those who through trusting the process and patience inherited the promises.
 13. For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he could swear by none greater, he swore by himself,
 14. saying, “Surely blessing I will bless ya, and multiplying I will multiply ya.”
 15. Thus, having patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
 16. For men facts swear by a greater one, and in every dispute of theirs the oath is final for confirmation.
 17. In this way God, being determined to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, interposed with an oath;
 18. that by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a built different encouragement, who have fled for refuge to grab hold of the hope set before us.
 19. This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and steadfast and entering into that which is within the veil;
 20. where as a forerunner Jesus entered for us, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek.
