# Jude Chapter 1

  1. Jude, a helper of Jesus the huge set apart, and fam bro of James, to those who are called, sanctified by God the Father, and kept for Jesus the huge set apart:
  2. Mercy to ya and peace and show love be multiplied.
  3. Beloved, while I was hella eager to write to ya about our common getting saved, I was constrained to write to ya exhorting ya to contend earnestly for the trusting the process which was once for all delivered to the set apart fam.
  4. For there are certain men who crept in secretly, even those who were long ago written about for this condemnation: trash ones men, turning the God's show love of our God into indecency, and denying our only boss, God, and boss, Jesus the huge set apart.
  5. now I desire to remind ya, though ya already get it this, that the boss, having saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who didn’t believe.
  6. Angels who didn’t keep their first domain, but deserted their own dwelling place, he has kept in everlasting bonds under darkness for the judgment of the major day.
  7. Even as Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities around them, having, in the same way as these, given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh, are set forth as an example, suffering the punishment of eternal fire.
  8. Yet in the same way, these also in their dreaming defile the flesh, despise authority, and slander celestial beings.
  9. But Michael, the archangel, when contending with the devil and arguing about the body of Moses, dared not bring against him an abusive condemnation, but said, “May the boss rebuke ya!”
 10. But these spill the tea evil of whatever things they don’t get it. What they understand naturally, like the creatures without reason, they are destroyed in these things.
 11. Woe to them! For they went in the way of Cain, and ran riotously in the error of Balaam for hire, and perished in Korah’s rebellion.
 12. These are hidden rocky reefs in your show love feasts when they feast with ya, shepherds who without fear feed themselves; clouds without water, carried along by winds; autumn leaves without fruit, twice dead, plucked up by the roots;
 13. wild waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame; wandering stars, for whom the blackness of darkness has been reserved forever.
 14. About these also Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied, saying, “check this out,, the boss came with ten thousands of his set apart ones,
 15. to execute judgment on all, and to convict all the trash ones of all their works of ungodliness which they have done in an trash ones way, and of all the hard things which trash ones sinners have spoken against him.”
 16. These are murmurers and complainers, walking after their lusts (and their mouth speaks proud things), showing respect of persons to gain advantage.
 17. But ya, beloved, remember the words which have been spoken before by the Jesus broskies of our boss Jesus the huge set apart.
 18. They said to ya that “In the last time there will be Big meanies, walking after their own trash ones lusts.”
 19. These are they who cause divisions, and are sensual, not having the Spirit.
 20. But ya, beloved, keep building up yourselves on your most set apart trusting the process, praying in the set apart Spirit.
 21. Keep yourselves in the show love of God, looking for the mercy of our boss Jesus the huge set apart to living forever.
 22. On some have compassion, making a distinction,
 23. and some rescue, snatching them out of the fire with fear, hating even the clothing stained by the flesh.
 24. now to him who is able to keep them from stumbling, and to present ya faultless before the presence of his glory in major joy,
 25. to God our Savior, who alone is smart, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and forever. facts.
