# 1 John Chapter 3

  1. check this out,, how major a show love the Father has bestowed on us, that we should be called children of God! For this cause the world doesn’t get it us, cuz it didn’t get it him.
  2. Beloved, now we are children of God, and it isn't yet revealed what we will be. But we get it that, when he is revealed, we will be like him; for we will check it out him just as he is.
  3. Everyone who has this hope set on him purifies himself, even as he is pure.
  4. Everyone who sins also commits lawlessness. messing up is lawlessness.
  5. ya get it that he was revealed to grab away our sins, and in him is no messing up.
  6. Whoever remains in him doesn’t messing up. Whoever sins hasn’t seen him, neither knows him.
  7. Little children, let no one show the way ya astray. He who does righteousness is doing what's right, even as he is doing what's right.
  8. He who sins is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. To this end the Son of God was revealed, that he might tear down the works of the devil.
  9. Whoever is born of God doesn’t commit messing up, cuz his seed remains in him; and he can’t messing up, cuz he is born of God.
 10. In this the children of God are revealed, and the children of the devil. Whoever doesn’t do righteousness isn't of God, neither is he who doesn’t show love his fam bro.
 11. For this is the message which ya heard from the beginning, that we should show love one another;
 12. unlike Cain, who was of the evil one, and killed his fam bro. Why did he kill him? cuz his works were evil, and his fam bro’s doing what's right.
 13. Don’t be surprised, my brothers, if the world hates ya.
 14. We get it that we have passed out of death into life, cuz we show love the brothers. He who doesn’t show love his fam bro remains in death.
 15. Whoever hates his fam bro is a murderer, and ya get it that no murderer has living forever remaining in him.
 16. By this we get it show love, cuz he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers.
 17. But whoever has the world’s goods, and sees his fam bro in need, and closes his heart of compassion against him, how does the show love of God remain in him?
 18. My little children, let’s not show love in word only, neither with the tongue only, but in deed and truth.
 19. And by this we get it that we are of the truth, and persuade our hearts before him,
 20. cuz if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and knows all things.
 21. Beloved, if our hearts don’t condemn us, we have boldness toward God;
 22. and whatever we ask, we receive from him, cuz we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight.
 23. This is his commandment, that we should believe in the name of his Son, Jesus the huge set apart, and show love one another, even as he commanded.
 24. He who keeps his commandments remains in him, and he in him. By this we get it that he remains in us, by the Spirit which he gave us.
