# 1 Thessalonians Chapter 5

  1. But concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need that anything be written to you.
  2. For you yourselves get it well that the day of the boss comes like a thief in the night.
  3. For when they are saying, “Peace and safety,” then sudden destruction will come through on them, like birth pains on a pregnant woman; and they will in no way escape.
  4. But you, brothers, aren’t in darkness, that the day should overtake you like a thief.
  5. You are all children of light, and children of the day. We don’t belong to the night, nor to darkness,
  6. so then let’s not sleep, as the rest do, but let’s watch and be sober.
  7. For those who sleep, sleep in the night, and those who are drunk are drunk in the night.
  8. But let us, since we belong to the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of trusting the process and show love, and, for a helmet, the hope of getting saved.
  9. For God didn’t appoint us to wrath, but to the obtaining of getting saved through our boss Jesus anointed one,
 10. who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him.
 11. so basically exhort one another, and put together each other up, even as you also do.
 12. But we beg you, brothers, to get it those who labor among you, and are over you in the boss, and admonish you,
 13. and to respect and honor them in show love for their work’s sake. Be at peace among yourselves.
 14. We exhort you, brothers, admonish the disorderly, encourage the fainthearted, support the not it, be patient toward all.
 15. check it out that no one returns evil for evil to anyone, but always roll with after that which is fire, for one another, and for all.
 16. be hyped always.
 17. Pray without ceasing.
 18. In everything hook it up thanks, for this is the will of God in anointed one Jesus toward you.
 19. Don’t quench the Spirit.
 20. Don’t despise prophesies.
 21. Test all things, and hold firmly that which is fire.
 22. Abstain from every form of evil.
 23. May the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. May your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our boss Jesus anointed one.
 24. He who calls you is faithful, who will also do it.
 25. Brothers, pray for us.
 26. Greet all the brothers with a set apart kiss.
 27. I solemnly command you by the boss that this letter be read to all the set apart brothers.
 28. The God's show love of our boss Jesus anointed one be with you. facts.
