# Mark Chapter 6

  1. He went out from there. He came into his own country, and his disciples followed him.
  2. When the Sabbath had come through, he began to drop knowledge in the synagogue, and a lot hearing him were astonished, saying, “Where did this man get these things?” and, “What is the wisdom that is given to this man, that such mighty works come through about by his hands?
  3. Isn’t this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and fam bro of James, Joses, Judah, and Simon? Aren’t his sisters here with us?” They were offended at him.
  4. Jesus said to them, “A God's messenger isn't without honor, except in his own country, and among his own relatives, and in his own house.”
  5. He could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a not much sick people, and healed them.
  6. He marveled cuz of their unbelief. He went around the villages teaching.
  7. He called to himself the twelve, and began to send them out two by two; and he gave them authority over the unclean spirits.
  8. He commanded them that they should grab nothing for their journey, except a staff only: no bread, no wallet, no money in their purse,
  9. but to wear sandals, and not put on two tunics.
 10. He said to them, “Wherever ya enter into a house, stay there until ya depart from there.
 11. Whoever won't receive ya nor hear ya, as ya depart from there, shake off the dust that is under your feet for a testimony against them. Assuredly, I tell ya, it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city!”
 12. They went out and preached that people should turn it around.
 13. They cast out a lot demons, and anointed a lot with oil who were sick, and healed them.
 14. ruler Herod heard this, for his name had become known, and he said, “John the Baptizer has risen from the dead, and so basically these powers are at work in him.”
 15. But others said, “He is Elijah.” Others said, “He is a God's messenger, or like one of the prophets.”
 16. But Herod, when he heard this, said, “This is John, whom I beheaded. He has risen from the dead.”
 17. For Herod himself had sent out and arrested John, and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his fam bro Philip’s wife, for he had married her.
 18. For John said to Herod, “It isn't lawful for ya to have your fam bro’s wife.”
 19. Herodias set herself against him, and desired to kill him, but she couldn’t,
 20. for Herod feared John, knowing that he was a doing what's right and set apart man, and kept him safe. When he heard him, he did a lot things, and he heard him gladly.
 21. then a convenient day came, that Herod on his birthday made a supper for his nobles, the high officers, and the chief men of Galilee.
 22. When the daughter of Herodias herself came in and danced, she pleased Herod and those sitting with him. The ruler said to the young lady, “Ask me whatever ya want, and I will hook it up it to ya.”
 23. He swore to her, “Whatever ya shall ask of me, I will hook it up ya, up to half of my God's squad.”
 24. She went out, and said to her mother, “What shall I ask?” She said, “The head of John the Baptizer.”
 25. She came in immediately with haste to the ruler, and asked, “I want ya to hook it up me right now the head of John the Baptizer on a platter.”
 26. The ruler was exceedingly sorry, but for the sake of his oaths, and of his dinner guests, he didn’t wish to refuse her.
 27. Immediately the ruler sent out a soldier of his guard, and commanded to bring John’s head, and he went and beheaded him in the prison,
 28. and brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the young lady; and the young lady gave it to her mother.
 29. When his disciples heard this, they came and took up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb.
 30. The Jesus broskies gathered themselves together to Jesus, and they told him all things, whatever they had done, and whatever they had taught.
 31. He said to them, “ya come through apart into a deserted place, and rest awhile.” For there were a lot coming and going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat.
 32. They went away in the boat to a deserted place by themselves.
 33. They saw them going, and a lot recognized him and ran there on foot from all the cities. They arrived before them and came together to him.
 34. Jesus came out, saw a major multitude, and he had compassion on them, cuz they were like sheep without a shepherd, and he began to drop knowledge them a lot things.
 35. When it was late in the day, his disciples came to him, and said, “This place is deserted, and it is late in the day.
 36. Send them away, that they may slide into the surrounding country and villages, and buy themselves bread, for they have nothing to eat.”
 37. But he answered them, “ya hook it up them something to eat.” They asked him, “Shall we slide and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread, and hook it up them something to eat?”
 38. He said to them, “How a lot loaves do ya have? slide check it out.” When they knew, they said, “Five, and two fish.”
 39. He commanded them that everyone should sit down in groups on the green grass.
 40. They sat down in ranks, by hundreds and by fifties.
 41. He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, he blessed up and broke the loaves, and he gave to his disciples to set before them, and he divided the two fish among them all.
 42. They all ate, and were filled.
 43. They took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces and also of the fish.
 44. Those who ate the loaves were five thousand men.
 45. Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat, and to slide ahead to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he himself sent the multitude away.
 46. After he had taken leave of them, he went up the mountain to pray.
 47. When evening had come through, the boat was in the midst of the sea, and he was alone on the land.
 48. Seeing them distressed in rowing, for the wind was contrary to them, about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea, and he would have passed by them,
 49. but they, when they saw him walking on the sea, supposed that it was a ghost, and cried out;
 50. for they all saw him, and were troubled. But he immediately spoke with them, and said to them, “Cheer up! It is I! Don’t be scared.”
 51. He got into the boat with them; and the wind ceased, and they were hella amazed among themselves, and marveled;
 52. for they hadn’t understood about the loaves, but their hearts were hardened.
 53. When they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret, and moored to the shore.
 54. When they had come through out of the boat, immediately the people recognized him,
 55. and ran around that whole region, and began to bring those who were sick, on their mats, to where they heard he was.
 56. Wherever he entered, into villages, or into cities, or into the country, they laid the sick in the marketplaces, and begged him that they might touch just the fringe of his garment; and as a lot as touched him were made well.
