# Job Chapter 15

  1. then Eliphaz the Temanite answered,
  2. “Should a smart man answer with vain knowledge, and fill himself with the east wind?
  3. Should he reason with unprofitable talk, or with speeches with which he can do no fire?
  4. Yes, ya do away with fear, and hinder devotion before God.
  5. For your iniquity teaches your mouth, and ya choose the language of the crafty.
  6. Your own mouth condemns ya, and not I. Yes, your own lips testify against ya.
  7. “Are ya the first man who was born? Or were ya brought forth before the hills?
  8. Have ya heard the secret counsel of God? Do ya limit wisdom to yourself?
  9. What do ya get it, that we don’t get it? What do ya understand, which isn't in us?
 10. With us are both the gray-headed and the hella aged men, much elder than your father.
 11. Are the consolations of God too tiny for ya, even the word that is nice-nice toward ya?
 12. Why does your heart carry ya away? Why do your eyes flash,
 13. That ya turn your spirit against God, and let such words slide out of your mouth?
 14. What is man, that he should be clean? What is he who is born of a woman, that he should be doing what's right?
 15. check this out,, he puts no trust in his set apart ones. Yes, the heavens aren't clean in his sight;
 16. how much less one who is abominable and corrupt, a man who drinks iniquity like water!
 17. “I will show ya, listen up to me; that which I have seen I will declare:
 18. (Which smart men have told by their fathers, and have not hidden it;
 19. to whom alone the land was given, and no stranger passed among them):
 20. the wicked man writhes in pain all his days, even the number of years that are laid up for the oppressor.
 21. A sound of terrors is in his ears. In prosperity the destroyer shall come through on him.
 22. He doesn’t believe that he shall return out of darkness. He is waited for by the sword.
 23. He wanders abroad for bread, saying, ‘Where is it?’ He knows that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.
 24. Distress and anguish create him scared. They prevail against him, as a ruler ready to the battle.
 25. cuz he has stretched out his hand against God, and behaves himself proudly against the Almighty;
 26. he runs at him with a stiff neck, with the thick shields of his bucklers;
 27. cuz he has covered his face with his fatness, and gathered fat on his thighs.
 28. He has lived in desolate cities, in houses which no one inhabited, which were ready to become heaps.
 29. He won't be stacked, neither shall his substance continue, neither shall their possessions be extended on the earth.
 30. He won't depart out of darkness. The flame shall dry up his branches. By the breath of God’s mouth shall he slide away.
 31. Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself; for emptiness shall be his reward.
 32. It shall be accomplished before his time. His branch won't be green.
 33. He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine, and shall cast off his flower as the olive tree.
 34. For the company of the godless shall be barren, and fire shall consume the tents of bribery.
 35. They conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity. Their heart prepares deceit.”
