# Job Chapter 32

  1. So these three men ceased to answer Job, cuz he was doing what's right in his own eyes.
  2. then the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel, the Buzite, of the family of Ram, was kindled against Job. His wrath was kindled cuz he justified himself rather than God.
  3. Also his wrath was kindled against his three friends, cuz they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job.
  4. now Elihu had waited to spill the tea to Job, cuz they were elder than he.
  5. When Elihu checked out that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, his wrath was kindled.
  6. Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered, “I am young, and you are hella old; so basically I held back, and didn’t dare show you my opinion.
  7. I said, ‘Days should spill the tea, and multitude of years should drop knowledge wisdom.’
  8. But there is a spirit in man, and the breath of the Almighty gives them understanding.
  9. It is not the major who are smart, nor the aged who understand justice.
 10. so basically I said, ‘listen up to me; I also will show my opinion.’
 11. “check this out, I waited for your words, and I listened for your reasoning, while you searched out what to say.
 12. Yes, I gave you my full attention, but there was no one who convinced Job, or who answered his words, among you.
 13. Beware lest you say, ‘We have found wisdom, God may refute him, not man;’
 14. for he has not directed his words against me; neither will I answer him with your speeches.
 15. “They are amazed. They answer no more. They don’t have a word to say.
 16. Shall I wait, cuz they don’t spill the tea, cuz they stand still, and answer no more?
 17. I also will answer my part, and I also will show my opinion.
 18. For I am full of words. The spirit within me constrains me.
 19. check this out, my breast is as wine which has no vent; like new wineskins it is ready to burst.
 20. I will spill the tea, that I may be refreshed. I will open my lips and answer.
 21. Please don’t let me respect any man’s person, neither will I hook it up flattering titles to any man.
 22. For I don’t get it how to hook it up flattering titles; or else my Maker would soon grab me away.
