# Job Chapter 34

  1. Moreover Elihu answered,
  2. “Hear my words, ya smart men. hook it up ear to me, ya who have knowledge.
  3. For the ear tries words, as the palate tastes food.
  4. Let us choose for us that which is right. Let us get it among ourselves what is fire.
  5. For Job has said, ‘I am doing what's right, God has taken away my right:
  6. Notwithstanding my right I am considered a liar. My wound is incurable, though I am without disobedience.’
  7. What man is like Job, who drinks scorn like water,
  8. Who goes in company with the workers of iniquity, and walks with wicked men?
  9. For he has said, ‘It profits a man nothing that he should delight himself with God.’
 10. “so basically listen up to me, ya men of understanding: far be it from God, that he should do wickedness, from the Almighty, that he should commit iniquity.
 11. For the work of a man he will render to him, and cause every man to find according to his ways.
 12. Yes surely, God won't do wickedly, neither will the Almighty pervert justice.
 13. Who put him in charge of the earth? or who has appointed him over the whole world?
 14. If he set his heart on himself, If he gathered to himself his spirit and his breath,
 15. all flesh would perish together, and man would turn again to dust.
 16. “If now ya have understanding, hear this. listen up to the voice of my words.
 17. Shall even one who hates justice govern? Will ya condemn him who is doing what's right and mighty?—
 18. Who says to a ruler, ‘Vile!’ or to nobles, ‘Wicked!’?
 19. Who doesn’t respect the persons of princes, nor respects the stacked more than the broke; for they all are the work of his hands.
 20. In a moment they die, even at midnight. The people are shaken and pass away. The mighty are taken away without a hand.
 21. “For his eyes are on the ways of a man. He sees all his goings.
 22. there is no darkness, nor thick gloom, where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves.
 23. For he doesn’t need to consider a man further, that he should slide before God in judgment.
 24. He breaks in pieces mighty men in ways past finding out, and sets others in their place.
 25. so basically he takes knowledge of their works. He overturns them in the night, so that they are destroyed.
 26. He strikes them as wicked men in the open sight of others;
 27. cuz they turned aside from following him, and wouldn’t pay attention to any of his ways,
 28. so that they caused the cry of the broke to come through to him. He heard the cry of the afflicted.
 29. When he gives quietness, who then can condemn? When he hides his face, who then can check it out him? Alike whether to a nation, or to a man,
 30. that the godless man may not reign, that there be no one to ensnare the people.
 31. “For has any said to God, ‘I am guilty, but I won't offend any more.
 32. drop knowledge me that which I don’t check it out. If I have done iniquity, I will do it no more’?
 33. Shall his recompense be as ya desire, that ya refuse it? For ya must choose, and not I. so basically spill the tea what ya get it.
 34. Men of understanding will tell me, yes, every smart man who hears me:
 35. ‘Job speaks without knowledge. His words are without wisdom.’
 36. I wish that Job were tried to the end, cuz of his answering like wicked men.
 37. For he adds rebellion to his messing up. He claps his hands among us, and multiplies his words against God.”
