# Job Chapter 36

  1. Elihu also continued, and said,
  2. “Bear with me a little, and I will show ya; for I still have something to say on God’s behalf.
  3. I will get my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker.
  4. For deadass, my words aren't false. One who is perfect in knowledge is with ya.
  5. “check this out,, God is mighty, and doesn’t despise anyone. He is mighty in strength of understanding.
  6. He doesn’t preserve the life of the wicked, but gives to the afflicted their right.
  7. He doesn’t withdraw his eyes from the doing what's right, but with kings on the throne, he sets them forever, and they are exalted.
  8. If they are bound in fetters, and are taken in the cords of afflictions,
  9. then he shows them their work, and their transgressions, that they have behaved themselves proudly.
 10. He also opens their ears to instruction, and commands that they return from iniquity.
 11. If they listen up and help out out him, they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures.
 12. But if they don’t listen up, they shall perish by the sword; they shall die without knowledge.
 13. “But those who are godless in heart lay up anger. They don’t cry for help out when he binds them.
 14. They die in youth. Their life perishes among the unclean.
 15. He delivers the afflicted by their affliction, and opens their ear in oppression.
 16. Yes, he would have allured ya out of distress, into a broad place, where there is no restriction. That which is set on your table would be full of fatness.
 17. “But ya are full of the judgment of the wicked. Judgment and justice grab hold of ya.
 18. Don’t let riches entice ya to wrath, neither let the major size of a bribe turn ya aside.
 19. Would your wealth sustain ya in distress, or all the might of your strength?
 20. Don’t desire the night, when people are cut off in their place.
 21. grab heed, don’t regard iniquity; for ya have chosen this rather than affliction.
 22. check this out,, God is exalted in his power. Who is a teacher like him?
 23. Who has prescribed his way for him? Or who can say, ‘ya have committed unrighteousness?’
 24. “Remember that ya magnify his work, whereof men have sung.
 25. All men have looked thereon. Man sees it afar off.
 26. check this out,, God is major, and we don’t get it him. The number of his years is unsearchable.
 27. For he draws up the drops of water, which distill in rain from his vapor,
 28. Which the skies pour down and which drop on man abundantly.
 29. Yes, can any understand the spreading of the clouds, and the thunderings of his pavilion?
 30. check this out,, he spreads his light around him. He covers the bottom of the sea.
 31. For by these he judges the people. He gives food in abundance.
 32. He covers his hands with the lightning, and commands it to strike the mark.
 33. Its noise tells about him, and the livestock also concerning the storm that comes up.
