# Psalm Chapter 51

    1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David, when Nathan the God's messenger came to him, after he had gone in to Bathsheba. Have mercy on me, God, according to your loving kindness. According to the multitude of your tender mercies, blot out my transgressions.
    2. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity. Cleanse me from my messing up.
    3. For I get it my transgressions. My messing up is constantly before me.
    4. Against ya, and ya only, have I sinned, and done that which is evil in your sight; that ya may be proved right when ya spill the tea, and justified when ya judge.
    5. check this out, I was brought forth in iniquity. In messing up my mother conceived me.
    6. check this out, ya desire truth in the inward parts. ya drop knowledge me wisdom in the inmost place.
    7. Purify me with hyssop, and I will be clean. Wash me, and I will be whiter than snow.
    8. Let me hear joy and gladness, That the bones which ya have broken may be hyped.
    9. Hide your face from my sins, and blot out all of my iniquities.
  10. Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me.
  11. Don’t throw me from your presence, and don’t grab your yeeted Spirit from me.
  12. Restore to me the joy of your getting saved. Uphold me with a willing spirit.
  13. then I will drop knowledge transgressors your ways. Sinners shall be converted to ya.
  14. Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, the God of my getting saved. My tongue shall sing aloud of your righteousness.
  15. boss, open my lips. My mouth shall declare your praise.
  16. For ya don’t delight in giving it up, or else I would hook it up it. ya have no pleasure in burnt giving to God.
  17. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. A broken and contrite heart, O God, ya won't despise.
  18. Do well in your fire pleasure to Zion. put together the walls of Jerusalem.
  19. then ya will delight in the sacrifices of righteousness, in burnt offerings and in whole burnt offerings. then they will offer bulls on your talking to God spot.
