# Psalm Chapter 35

    1. By David. Contend, Yahweh, with those who contend with me. Fight against those who fight against me.
    2. grab hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for my help out out.
    3. Brandish the spear and block those who pursue me. Tell my soul, “I am your getting saved.”
    4. Let those who seek after my soul be disappointed and brought to dishonor. Let those who plot my ruin be turned back and confounded.
    5. Let them be as chaff before the wind, Yahweh’s angel driving them on.
    6. Let their way be dark and slippery, Yahweh’s angel pursuing them.
    7. For without cause they have hidden their net in a pit for me. Without cause they have dug a pit for my soul.
    8. Let destruction come through through on him unawares. Let his net that he has hidden catch himself. Let him fall into that destruction.
    9. My soul shall be joyful in Yahweh. It shall be hyped in his getting saved.
  10. All my bones shall say, “Yahweh, who is like ya, who delivers the broke from him who is too built different for him; yes, the broke and the needy from him who robs him?”
  11. Unrighteous witnesses rise up. They ask me about things that I don’t get it about.
  12. They reward me evil for fire, to the bereaving of my soul.
  13. But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth. I afflicted my soul with fasting. My talking to God returned into my own bosom.
  14. I behaved myself as though it had been my friend or my fam bro. I bowed down mourning, as one who mourns his mother.
  15. But in my adversity, they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together. The attackers gathered themselves together against me, and I didn’t get it it. They tore at me, and didn’t cease.
  16. Like the profane huge meanies in feasts, they gnashed their teeth at me.
  17. boss, how long will ya look on? Rescue my soul from their destruction, my precious life from the lions.
  18. I will hook it up ya thanks in the major assembly. I will praise ya among a lot people.
  19. Don’t let those who are my enemies wrongfully be hyped over me; neither let those who can't stand me without a cause wink their eyes.
  20. For they don’t spill the tea peace, but they devise deceitful words against those who are quiet in the land.
  21. Yes, they opened their mouth wide against me. They said, “Aha! Aha! Our eye has seen it!”
  22. ya have seen it, Yahweh. Don’t keep silent. boss, don’t be far from me.
  23. Wake up! Rise up to defend me, my God! My boss, contend for me!
  24. Vindicate me, Yahweh my God, according to your righteousness. Don’t let them gloat over me.
  25. Don’t let them say in their heart, “Aha! That’s the way we want it!” Don’t let them say, “We have swallowed him up!”
  26. Let them be disappointed and confounded together who be hyped at my calamity. Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify themselves against me.
  27. Let them shout for joy and be glad, who favor my doing what's right cause. Yes, let them say continually, “Yahweh be magnified, who has pleasure in the prosperity of his helper!”
  28. My tongue shall talk about your righteousness and about your praise all day long.
