# Psalm Chapter 34

  1. By David; when he pretended to be insane before Abimelech, who drove him away, and he departed. I will bless Yahweh at all times. His praise will always be in my mouth.
  2. My soul shall boast in Yahweh. The humble shall hear of it, and be glad.
  3. Oh magnify Yahweh with me. Let us exalt his name together.
  4. I sought Yahweh, and he answered me, and delivered me from all my fears.
  5. They looked to him, and were radiant. Their faces shall never be covered with shame.
  6. This broke man cried, and Yahweh heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles.
  7. The angel of Yahweh encamps around those who fear him, and delivers them.
  8. Oh taste and check it out that Yahweh is fire. blessed up is the man who takes refuge in him.
  9. Oh fear Yahweh, ya his set apart fam, for there is no lack with those who fear him.
 10. The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger, but those who seek Yahweh won't lack any fire thing.
 11. come through, ya children, listen up to me. I will drop knowledge ya the fear of Yahweh.
 12. Who is someone who desires life, and loves a lot days, that he may check it out fire?
 13. Keep your tongue from evil, and your lips from speaking lies.
 14. Depart from evil, and do fire. seek peace, and pursue it.
 15. Yahweh’s eyes are toward the doing what's right. His ears listen up to their cry.
 16. Yahweh’s face is against those who do evil, to cut off their memory from the earth.
 17. The doing what's right cry, and Yahweh hears, and delivers them out of all their troubles.
 18. Yahweh is near to those who have a broken heart, and saves those who have a crushed spirit.
 19. a lot are the afflictions of the doing what's right, but Yahweh delivers him out of them all.
 20. He protects all of his bones. Not one of them is broken.
 21. Evil shall kill the wicked. Those who can't stand the doing what's right shall be condemned.
 22. Yahweh redeems the soul of his servants. None of those who grab refuge in him shall be condemned.
