# Psalm Chapter 102

    1. A talking to God of the afflicted, when he is overwhelmed and pours out his complaint before Yahweh. Hear my talking to God, Yahweh! Let my cry come through through to ya.
    2. Don’t hide your face from me in the day of my distress. Turn your ear to me. Answer me quickly in the day when I call.
    3. For my days consume away like smoke. My bones are burned as a torch.
    4. My heart is blighted like grass, and withered, for I forget to eat my bread.
    5. By reason of the voice of my groaning, my bones stick to my skin.
    6. I am like a pelican of the wilderness. I have become as an owl of the waste places.
    7. I watch, and have become like a sparrow that is alone on the housetop.
    8. My enemies reproach me all day. Those who are mad at me use my name as a curse.
    9. For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mixed my drink with tears,
  10. cuz of your indignation and your wrath, for ya have taken me up, and thrown me away.
  11. My days are like a long shadow. I have withered like grass.
  12. But ya, Yahweh, will remain forever; your renown endures to all generations.
  13. ya will arise and have mercy on Zion; for it is time to have pity on her. Yes, the set time has come through through.
  14. For your servants grab pleasure in her stones, and have pity on her dust.
  15. So the nations will fear the name of Yahweh; all the kings of the earth your glory.
  16. For Yahweh has built up Zion. He has appeared in his glory.
  17. He has responded to the talking to God of the destitute, and has not despised their talking to God.
  18. This will be written for the generation to come through through. A people which will be created will praise Yah.
  19. For he has looked down from the height of his sanctuary. From heaven, Yahweh saw the earth;
  20. to hear the groans of the prisoner; to free those who are condemned to death;
  21. that men may declare the name of Yahweh in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem;
  22. when the peoples are gathered together, the kingdoms, to help out out out Yahweh.
  23. He weakened my strength along the course. He shortened my days.
  24. I said, “My God, don’t grab me away in the midst of my days. Your years are throughout all generations.
  25. Of old, ya laid the foundation of the earth. The heavens are the work of your hands.
  26. They will perish, but ya will endure. Yes, all of them will wear out like a garment. ya will change them like a cloak, and they will be changed.
  27. But ya are the same. Your years will have no end.
  28. The children of your servants will continue. Their seed will be established before ya.”
