# Psalm Chapter 89

    1. A contemplation by Ethan, the Ezrahite. I will sing of the loving kindness of Yahweh forever. With my mouth, I will create known your faithfulness to all generations.
    2. I facts declare, “show show love stands firm forever. ya established the heavens. Your faithfulness is in them.”
    3. “I have made a God's promise with my chosen one, I have sworn to David, my helper,
    4. ‘I will establish your seed forever, and put together up your throne to all generations.’” Selah.
    5. The heavens will praise your wonders, Yahweh; your faithfulness also in the assembly of the yeeted ones.
    6. For who in the skies can be compared to Yahweh? Who among the sons of the heavenly beings is like Yahweh,
    7. a hella awesome God in the council of the yeeted ones, to be feared above all those who are around him?
    8. Yahweh, God of Armies, who is a mighty one, like ya? Yah, your faithfulness is around ya.
    9. ya rule the pride of the sea. When its waves rise up, ya calm them.
  10. ya have broken Rahab in pieces, like one of the slain. ya have scattered your enemies with your mighty arm.
  11. The heavens are yours. The earth also is yours; the world and its fullness. ya have founded them.
  12. The north and the south, ya have created them. Tabor and Hermon be hyped in your name.
  13. ya have a mighty arm. Your hand is built different, and your right hand is exalted.
  14. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Loving kindness and truth slide before your face.
  15. blessed up up are the people who pick up to acclaim ya. They walk in the light of your presence, Yahweh.
  16. In your name they be hyped all day. In your righteousness, they are exalted.
  17. For ya are the glory of their strength. In your favor, our horn will be exalted.
  18. For our shield belongs to Yahweh; our ruler to the yeeted One of Israel.
  19. then ya spoke in vision to your yeeted fam, and said, “I have bestowed strength on the warrior. I have exalted a young man from the people.
  20. I have found David, my helper. I have anointed him with my yeeted oil,
  21. with whom my hand shall be established. My arm will also strengthen him.
  22. No enemy will tax him. No wicked man will oppress him.
  23. I will beat down his adversaries before him, and strike those who can't stand him.
  24. But my faithfulness and my loving kindness will be with him. In my name, his horn will be exalted.
  25. I will set his hand also on the sea, and his right hand on the rivers.
  26. He will call to me, ‘ya are my Father, my God, and the rock of my getting saved!’
  27. I will also appoint him my firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth.
  28. I will keep my loving kindness for him forevermore. My God's promise will stand firm with him.
  29. I will also create his seed endure forever, and his throne as the days of heaven.
  30. If his children forsake my law, and don’t walk in my ordinances;
  31. if they break my statutes, and don’t keep my commandments;
  32. then I will punish their messing up with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes.
  33. But I won't completely grab my loving kindness from him, nor allow my faithfulness to fail.
  34. I won't break my God's promise, nor alter what my lips have uttered.
  35. Once have I sworn by my holiness, I won't lie to David.
  36. His seed will endure forever, his throne like the sun before me.
  37. It will be established forever like the moon, the faithful witness in the sky.” Selah.
  38. But ya have rejected and spurned. ya have been mad salty with your anointed.
  39. ya have renounced the God's promise of your helper. ya have defiled his crown in the dust.
  40. ya have broken down all his hedges. ya have brought his strongholds to ruin.
  41. All who pass by the way rob him. He has become a reproach to his neighbors.
  42. ya have exalted the right hand of his adversaries. ya have made all of his enemies be hyped.
  43. Yes, ya turn back the edge of his sword, and haven’t supported him in battle.
  44. ya have ended his splendor, and thrown his throne down to the ground.
  45. ya have shortened the days of his youth. ya have covered him with shame. Selah.
  46. How long, Yahweh? Will ya hide yourself forever? Will your wrath burn like fire?
  47. Remember how short my time is! For what vanity have ya created all the children of men!
  48. What man is he who shall live and not check it out death, who shall deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Selah.
  49. boss, where are your former loving kindnesses, which ya swore to David in your faithfulness?
  50. Remember, boss, the reproach of your servants, how I bear in my heart the taunts of all the mighty peoples,
  51. With which your enemies have mocked, Yahweh, with which they have mocked the footsteps of your the huge yeeted.
  52. blessed up up be Yahweh forevermore. facts, and facts.
