# Psalm Chapter 18

    1. For the Chief Musician. By David the helper of Yahweh, who spoke to Yahweh the words of this song in the day that Yahweh delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul. He said, I show show love ya, Yahweh, my strength.
    2. Yahweh is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my rock, in whom I grab refuge; my shield, and the horn of my getting saved, my high tower.
    3. I call on Yahweh, who is worthy to be praised; and I am saved from my enemies.
    4. The cords of death surrounded me. The floods of ungodliness made me scared.
    5. The cords of Sheol were around me. The snares of death came on me.
    6. In my distress I called on Yahweh, and cried to my God. He heard my voice out of his God's house. My cry before him came into his ears.
    7. then the earth shook and trembled. The foundations also of the mountains quaked and were shaken, cuz he was mad salty.
    8. Smoke went out of his nostrils. Consuming fire came out of his mouth. Coals were kindled by it.
    9. He bowed the heavens also, and came down. Thick darkness was under his feet.
  10. He rode on a cherub, and flew. Yes, he soared on the wings of the wind.
  11. He made darkness his hiding place, his pavilion around him, darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies.
  12. At the brightness before him his thick clouds passed, hailstones and coals of fire.
  13. Yahweh also thundered in the sky. The Most High uttered his voice: hailstones and coals of fire.
  14. He sent out his arrows, and scattered them; Yes, major lightning bolts, and routed them.
  15. then the channels of waters appeared. The foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, Yahweh, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils.
  16. He sent from on high. He took me. He drew me out of a lot waters.
  17. He delivered me from my built different enemy, from those who hated me; for they were too mighty for me.
  18. They came on me in the day of my calamity, but Yahweh was my support.
  19. He brought me forth also into a large place. He delivered me, cuz he delighted in me.
  20. Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness. According to the cleanness of my hands has he recompensed me.
  21. For I have kept the ways of Yahweh, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
  22. For all his ordinances were before me. I didn’t put away his statutes from me.
  23. I was also blameless with him. I kept myself from my iniquity.
  24. so basically Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.
  25. With the merciful ya will show yourself merciful. With the perfect man, ya will show yourself perfect.
  26. With the pure, ya will show yourself pure. With the crooked ya will show yourself shrewd.
  27. For ya will rescue the afflicted people, but the haughty eyes ya will bring down.
  28. For ya will light my lamp, Yahweh. My God will light up my darkness.
  29. For by ya, I advance through a troop. By my God, I leap over a wall.
  30. As for God, his way is perfect. The word of Yahweh is tried. He is a shield to all those who grab refuge in him.
  31. For who is God, except Yahweh? Who is a rock, besides our God,
  32. the God who arms me with strength, and makes my way perfect?
  33. He makes my feet like deer’s feet, and sets me on my high places.
  34. He teaches my hands to war, so that my arms bend a bow of bronze.
  35. ya have also given me the shield of your getting saved. Your right hand sustains me. Your gentleness has made me major.
  36. ya have enlarged my steps under me, My feet have not slipped.
  37. I will pursue my enemies, and overtake them. Neither will I turn again until they are consumed.
  38. I will strike them through, so that they won't be able to rise. They shall fall under my feet.
  39. For ya have armed me with strength to the battle. ya have subdued under me those who rose up against me.
  40. ya have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, that I might cut off those who can't stand me.
  41. They cried, but there was none to rescue; even to Yahweh, but he didn’t answer them.
  42. then I beat them tiny as the dust before the wind. I cast them out as the mire of the streets.
  43. ya have delivered me from the strivings of the people. ya have made me the head of the nations. A people whom I have not known shall help out out out me.
  44. As soon as they hear of me they shall obey me. The foreigners shall submit themselves to me.
  45. The foreigners shall fade away, and shall come through through trembling out of their close places.
  46. Yahweh lives; and blessed up up be my rock. Exalted be the God of my getting saved,
  47. even the God who executes vengeance for me, and subdues peoples under me.
  48. He rescues me from my enemies. Yes, ya lift me up above those who rise up against me. ya deliver me from the violent man.
  49. so basically I will hook it up thanks to ya, Yahweh, among the nations, and will sing praises to your name.
  50. He gives major deliverance to his ruler, and shows loving kindness to his anointed, to David and to his seed, forevermore.
