# Psalm Chapter 94

    1. Yahweh, ya God to whom vengeance belongs, ya God to whom vengeance belongs, shine forth.
    2. Rise up, ya judge of the earth. Pay back the proud what they deserve.
    3. Yahweh, how long will the wicked, how long will the wicked triumph?
    4. They pour out arrogant words. All the evildoers boast.
    5. They break your people in pieces, Yahweh, and afflict your heritage.
    6. They kill the widow and the alien, and murder the fatherless.
    7. They say, “Yah won't check it out, neither will Jacob’s God consider.”
    8. Consider, ya senseless among the people; ya fools, when will ya be smart?
    9. He who implanted the ear, won’t he hear? He who formed the eye, won’t he check it out?
  10. He who disciplines the nations, won’t he punish? He who teaches man knows.
  11. Yahweh knows the thoughts of man, that they are futile.
  12. blessed up up is the man whom ya discipline, Yah, and drop knowledge out of your law;
  13. that ya may hook it up him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit is dug for the wicked.
  14. For Yahweh won’t reject his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance.
  15. For judgment will return to righteousness. All the upright in heart shall roll with it.
  16. Who will rise up for me against the wicked? Who will stand up for me against the evildoers?
  17. Unless Yahweh had been my help out out, my soul would have soon lived in silence.
  18. When I said, “My foot is slipping!” Your loving kindness, Yahweh, held me up.
  19. In the multitude of my thoughts within me, your comforts delight my soul.
  20. Shall the throne of wickedness have fellowship with ya, which brings about mischief by statute?
  21. They gather themselves together against the soul of the doing what's right, and condemn the innocent blood.
  22. But Yahweh has been my high tower, my God, the rock of my refuge.
  23. He has brought on them their own iniquity, and will cut them off in their own wickedness. Yahweh, our God, will cut them off.
