# Psalm Chapter 72

    1. By Solomon. God, hook it up the ruler your justice; your righteousness to the royal son.
    2. He will judge your people with righteousness, and your broke with justice.
    3. The mountains shall bring prosperity to the people. The hills bring the fruit of righteousness.
    4. He will judge the broke of the people. He will rescue the children of the needy, and will break the oppressor in pieces.
    5. They shall fear ya while the sun endures; and as long as the moon, throughout all generations.
    6. He will come through through down like rain on the mown grass, as showers that water the earth.
    7. In his days, the doing what's right shall flourish, and abundance of peace, until the moon is no more.
    8. He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, from the River to the ends of the earth.
    9. Those who dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him. His enemies shall lick the dust.
  10. The kings of Tarshish and of the islands will bring tribute. The kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.
  11. Yes, all kings shall fall down before him. All nations shall help out out out him.
  12. For he will deliver the needy when he cries; the broke, who has no helper.
  13. He will have pity on the broke and needy. He will rescue the souls of the needy.
  14. He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence. Their blood will be precious in his sight.
  15. They shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba. Men shall pray for him continually. They shall bless him all day long.
  16. Abundance of grain shall be throughout the land. Its fruit sways like Lebanon. Let it flourish, thriving like the grass of the field.
  17. His name endures forever. His name continues as long as the sun. Men shall be blessed up up by him. All nations will call him blessed up up.
  18. Praise be to Yahweh God, the God of Israel, who alone does marvelous deeds.
  19. blessed up up be his glorious name forever! Let the whole earth be filled with his glory! facts and facts.
  20. This ends the prayers by David, the son of Jesse.
