# Psalm Chapter 50

    1. A Psalm by Asaph. The Mighty One, God, Yahweh, speaks, and calls the earth from sunrise to sunset.
    2. Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shines forth.
    3. Our God comes, and does not keep silent. A fire devours before him. It is hella stormy around him.
    4. He calls to the heavens above, to the earth, that he may judge his people:
    5. “Gather my yeeted fam together to me, those who have made a God's promise with me by giving it up.”
    6. The heavens shall declare his righteousness, for God himself is judge. Selah.
    7. “Hear, my people, and I will spill the tea; Israel, and I will testify against ya. I am God, your God.
    8. I don’t rebuke ya for your sacrifices. Your burnt offerings are continually before me.
    9. I have no need for a bull from your stall, nor male goats from your pens.
  10. For every animal of the forest is mine, and the livestock on a thousand hills.
  11. I get it all the birds of the mountains. The wild animals of the field are mine.
  12. If I were hungry, I would not tell ya, for the world is mine, and all that is in it.
  13. Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?
  14. Offer to God the giving it up of thanksgiving. Pay your vows to the Most High.
  15. Call on me in the day of trouble. I will deliver ya, and ya will honor me.”
  16. But to the wicked God says, “What right do ya have to declare my statutes, that ya have taken my God's promise on your lips,
  17. since ya can't stand instruction, and throw my words behind ya?
  18. When ya saw a thief, ya consented with him, and have participated with adulterers.
  19. “ya hook it up your mouth to evil. Your tongue frames deceit.
  20. ya sit and spill the tea against your fam bro. ya slander your own mother’s son.
  21. ya have done these things, and I kept silent. ya thought that I was just like ya. I will rebuke ya, and accuse ya in front of your eyes.
  22. “now consider this, ya who forget God, lest I tear ya into pieces, and there be none to deliver.
  23. Whoever offers the giving it up of thanksgiving glorifies me, and prepares his way so that I will show God’s getting saved to him.”
