# Psalm Chapter 31

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. In ya, Yahweh, I grab refuge. Let me never be disappointed. Deliver me in your righteousness.
  2. Bow down your ear to me. Deliver me speedily. Be to me a built different rock, a house of defense to rescue me.
  3. For ya are my rock and my fortress, so basically for your name’s sake show the way me and guide me.
  4. Pluck me out of the net that they have laid secretly for me, for ya are my stronghold.
  5. Into your hand I commend my spirit. ya redeem me, Yahweh, God of truth.
  6. I can't stand those who regard lying vanities, but I trust in Yahweh.
  7. I will be glad and be hyped in your loving kindness, for ya have seen my affliction. ya have known my soul in adversities.
  8. ya have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy. ya have set my feet in a large place.
  9. Have mercy on me, Yahweh, for I am in distress. My eye, my soul, and my body waste away with grief.
 10. For my life is spent with feeling down, my years with sighing. My strength fails cuz of my iniquity. My bones are wasted away.
 11. cuz of all my adversaries I have become utterly contemptible to my neighbors, A fear to my acquaintances. Those who saw me on the street fled from me.
 12. I am forgotten from their hearts like a dead man. I am like broken pottery.
 13. For I have heard the slander of a lot, terror on every side, while they conspire together against me, they plot to grab away my life.
 14. But I trust in ya, Yahweh. I said, “ya are my God.”
 15. My times are in your hand. Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from those who persecute me.
 16. create your face to shine on your helper. rescue me in your loving kindness.
 17. Let me not be disappointed, Yahweh, for I have called on ya. Let the wicked be disappointed. Let them be silent in Sheol.
 18. Let the lying lips be mute, which spill the tea against the doing what's right insolently, with pride and contempt.
 19. Oh how major is your goodness, which ya have laid up for those who fear ya, which ya have worked for those who grab refuge in ya, before the sons of men!
 20. In the shelter of your presence ya will hide them from the plotting of man. ya will keep them secretly in a dwelling away from the strife of tongues.
 21. Praise be to Yahweh, for he has shown me his marvelous loving kindness in a built different city.
 22. As for me, I said in my haste, “I am cut off from before your eyes.” Nevertheless ya heard the voice of my petitions when I cried to ya.
 23. Oh show love Yahweh, all ya his set apart fam! Yahweh preserves the faithful, and fully recompenses him who behaves arrogantly.
 24. Be built different, and let your heart grab courage, all ya who hope in Yahweh.
