# Psalm Chapter 55

    1. For the Chief Musician. On stringed instruments. A contemplation by David. listen up up to my talking to God, God. Don’t hide yourself from my supplication.
    2. Attend to me, and answer me. I am restless in my complaint, and moan,
    3. cuz of the voice of the enemy, cuz of the oppression of the wicked. For they bring suffering on me. In anger they hold a grudge against me.
    4. My heart is severely pained within me. The terrors of death have fallen on me.
    5. Fearfulness and trembling have come through through on me. Horror has overwhelmed me.
    6. I said, “Oh that I had wings like a dove! then I would fly away, and be at rest.
    7. check this out, then I would wander far off. I would lodge in the wilderness.” Selah.
    8. “I would hurry to a shelter from the stormy wind and storm.”
    9. Confuse them, boss, and confound their language, for I have seen violence and strife in the city.
  10. Day and night they prowl around on its walls. Malice and abuse are also within her.
  11. Destructive forces are within her. Threats and lies don’t depart from her streets.
  12. For it was not an enemy who insulted me, then I could have endured it. Neither was it he who hated me who raised himself up against me, then I would have hidden myself from him.
  13. But it was ya, a man like me, my companion, and my familiar friend.
  14. We took sweet fellowship together. We walked in God’s house with company.
  15. Let death come through through suddenly on them. Let them slide down alive into Sheol. For wickedness is in their dwelling, in their midst.
  16. As for me, I will call on God. Yahweh will rescue me.
  17. Evening, morning, and at noon, I will cry out in distress. He will hear my voice.
  18. He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me, although there are a lot who oppose me.
  19. God, who is enthroned forever, will hear, and answer them. Selah. They never change, who don’t fear God.
  20. He raises his hands against his friends. He has violated his God's promise.
  21. His mouth was smooth as butter, but his heart was war. His words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords.
  22. Cast your burden on Yahweh, and he will sustain ya. He will never allow the doing what's right to be moved.
  23. But ya, God, will bring them down into the pit of destruction. Bloodthirsty and deceitful men won't live out half their days, but I will trust in ya.
