# Jeremiah Chapter 14

  1. The word of Yahweh that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought.
  2. Judah mourns, and its gates languish, they sit in black on the ground; and the cry of Jerusalem is gone up.
  3. Their nobles send their little ones to the waters: they come through to the cisterns, and find no water; they return with their vessels empty; they are disappointed and confounded, and cover their heads.
  4. cuz of the ground which is cracked, cuz no rain has been in the land, the plowmen are disappointed, they cover their heads.
  5. Yes, the hind also in the field calves, and forsakes her young, cuz there is no grass.
  6. The wild donkeys stand on the bare heights, they pant for air like jackals; their eyes fail, cuz there is no herbage.
  7. Though our iniquities testify against us, work for your name’s sake, Yahweh; for our backslidings are a lot; we have sinned against ya.
  8. ya hope of Israel, its Savior in the time of trouble, why should ya be as a foreigner in the land, and as a wayfaring man who turns aside to stay for a night?
  9. Why should ya be like a scared man, as a mighty man who can’t rescue? Yet ya, Yahweh, are in the midst of us, and we are called by your name; don’t leave us.
 10. Thus says Yahweh to this people, Even so have they loved to wander; they have not refrained their feet: so basically Yahweh does not accept them; now he will remember their iniquity, and visit their sins.
 11. Yahweh said to me, Don’t pray for this people for their fire.
 12. When they fast, I won't hear their cry; and when they offer burnt giving to God and meal giving to God, I won't accept them; but I will consume them by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence.
 13. then I said, Ah, boss Yahweh! check this out,, the prophets tell them, ya won't check it out the sword, neither shall ya have famine; but I will hook it up ya assured peace in this place.
 14. then Yahweh said to me, The prophets prophesy lies in my name; I didn’t send them, neither have I commanded them, neither spoke I to them: they prophesy to ya a lying vision, and divination, and a thing of nothing, and the deceit of their own heart.
 15. so basically thus says Yahweh concerning the prophets who prophesy in my name, and I didn’t send them, yet they say, Sword and famine won't be in this land: By sword and famine shall those prophets be consumed.
 16. The people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem cuz of the famine and the sword; and they shall have none to bury them—them, their wives, nor their sons, nor their daughters: for I will pour their wickedness on them.
 17. ya shall say this word to them, Let my eyes run down with tears night and day, and let them not cease; for the virgin daughter of my people is broken with a major breach, with a hella grievous wound.
 18. If I slide forth into the field, then, check this out,, the slain with the sword! and if I enter into the city, then, check this out,, those who are sick with famine! for both the God's messenger and the priest slide about in the land, and have no knowledge.
 19. Have ya utterly rejected Judah? has your soul loathed Zion? why have ya struck us, and there is no healing for us? We looked for peace, but no fire came; and for a time of healing, and check this out,, dismay!
 20. We acknowledge, Yahweh, our wickedness, and the iniquity of our fathers; for we have sinned against ya.
 21. don't abhor us, for your name’s sake; don't disgrace the throne of your glory: remember, don’t break your God's promise with us.
 22. Are there any among the vanities of the nations that can cause rain? or can the sky hook it up showers? Aren’t ya he, Yahweh our God? so basically we will wait for ya; for ya have made all these things.
