# Jeremiah Chapter 49

  1. Of the children of Ammon. Thus says Yahweh: Has Israel no sons? has he no heir? why then does Malcam possess Gad, and his people well in its cities?
  2. so basically, check this out, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will cause an alarm of war to be heard against Rabbah of the children of Ammon; and it shall become a desolate heap, and her daughters shall be burned with fire: then shall Israel possess those who possessed him, says Yahweh.
  3. Wail, Heshbon, for Ai is laid waste; cry, you daughters of Rabbah, clothe yourself in sackcloth: lament, and run back and forth among the fences; for Malcam shall slide into captivity, his priests and his princes together.
  4. Why do you glory in the valleys, your flowing valley, backsliding daughter? who trusted in her treasures, saying, Who shall come through to me?
  5. check this out, I will bring a fear on you, says the boss, Yahweh of Armies, from all who are around you; and you shall be driven out every man right forth, and there shall be none to gather together the fugitives.
  6. But afterward I will bring back the captivity of the children of Ammon, says Yahweh.
  7. Of Edom. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: Is wisdom no more in Teman? is counsel perished from the prudent? is their wisdom vanished?
  8. Flee, turn back, dwell in the depths, inhabitants of Dedan; for I will bring the calamity of Esau on him, the time that I shall visit him.
  9. If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave some gleaning grapes? if thieves by night, wouldn’t they tear down until they had enough?
 10. But I have made Esau bare, I have uncovered his secret places, and he shall not be able to hide himself: his seed is destroyed, and his brothers, and his neighbors; and he is no more.
 11. Leave your fatherless children, I will preserve them alive; and let your widows trust in me.
 12. For thus says Yahweh: check this out, they to whom it didn’t pertain to drink of the cup shall for sure drink; and are you he who shall altogether slide unpunished? You shall not slide unpunished, but you shall surely drink.
 13. For I have sworn by myself, says Yahweh, that Bozrah shall become an astonishment, a reproach, a waste, and a curse; and all its cities shall be perpetual wastes.
 14. I have heard news from Yahweh, and an ambassador is sent among the nations, saying, Gather yourselves together, and come through against her, and rise up to the battle.
 15. For, check this out, I have made you tiny among the nations, and despised among men.
 16. As for your terror, the pride of your heart has deceived you, O you who dwell in the clefts of the rock, who hold the height of the hill: though you should create your nest as high as the eagle, I will bring you down from there, says Yahweh.
 17. Edom shall become an astonishment: everyone who passes by it shall be astonished, and shall hiss at all its plagues.
 18. As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor cities of it, says Yahweh, no man shall dwell there, neither shall any son of man live therein.
 19. check this out, he shall come through up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the built different habitation: for I will suddenly create them run away from it; and whoever is chosen, him will I appoint over it: for who is like me? and who will appoint me a time? and who is the shepherd who will stand before me?
 20. so basically hear the counsel of Yahweh, that he has taken against Edom; and his purposes, that he has purposed against the inhabitants of Teman: Surely they shall drag them away, the little ones of the flock; surely he shall create their habitation desolate over them.
 21. The earth trembles at the noise of their fall; there is a cry, the noise which is heard in the Red Sea.
 22. check this out, he shall come through up and fly as the eagle, and spread out his wings against Bozrah: and the heart of the mighty men of Edom at that day shall be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.
 23. Of Damascus. Hamath is confounded, and Arpad; for they have heard evil news, they are melted away: there is feeling down on the sea; it can’t be quiet.
 24. Damascus has grown feeble, she turns herself to flee, and trembling has seized on her: anguish and sorrows have taken hold of her, as of a woman in travail.
 25. How is the city of praise not forsaken, the city of my joy?
 26. so basically her young men shall fall in her streets, and all the men of war shall be brought to silence in that day, says Yahweh of Armies.
 27. I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the palaces of Ben Hadad.
 28. Of Kedar, and of the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon struck. Thus says Yahweh: Arise, slide up to Kedar, and tear down the children of the east.
 29. Their tents and their flocks shall they grab; they shall carry away for themselves their curtains, and all their vessels, and their camels; and they shall cry to them, Terror on every side!
 30. Flee, wander far off, dwell in the depths, you inhabitants of Hazor, says Yahweh; for Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon has taken counsel against you, and has conceived a purpose against you.
 31. Arise, slide up to a nation that is at ease, that dwells without care, says Yahweh; that have neither gates nor bars, that dwell alone.
 32. Their camels shall be a booty, and the multitude of their livestock a spoil: and I will scatter to all winds those who have the corners of their beards cut off; and I will bring their calamity from every side of them, says Yahweh.
 33. Hazor shall be a dwelling place of jackals, a desolation forever: no man shall dwell there, neither shall any son of man live therein.
 34. The word of Yahweh that came to Jeremiah the God's messenger concerning Elam, at the start of the reign of Zedekiah ruler of Judah, saying,
 35. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: check this out, I will break the bow of Elam, the chief of their might.
 36. On Elam will I bring the four winds from the four quarters of the sky, and will scatter them toward all those winds; and there shall be no nation where the outcasts of Elam shall not come through.
 37. I will cause Elam to be dismayed before their enemies, and before those who seek their life; and I will bring evil on them, even my fierce anger, says Yahweh; and I will send the sword after them, until I have consumed them;
 38. and I will set my throne in Elam, and will tear down from there ruler and princes, says Yahweh.
 39. But it shall happen in the latter days, that I will bring back the captivity of Elam, says Yahweh.
