# Jeremiah Chapter 25

  1. The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah (the same was the first year of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon),
  2. which Jeremiah the God's messenger spoke to all the people of Judah, and to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying:
  3. From the thirteenth year of Josiah the son of Amon, ruler of Judah, even to this day, these twenty-three years, the word of Yahweh has come through to me, and I have spoken to you, rising up early and speaking; but you have not listened.
  4. Yahweh has sent to you all his servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them (but you have not listened, nor inclined your ear to hear)
  5. saying, Return now everyone from his evil way, and from the evil of your doings, and dwell in the land that Yahweh has given to you and to your fathers, from of old and even forevermore;
  6. and don’t slide after other gods to help out them or giving props them, and don’t provoke me to anger with the work of your hands; and I will do you no harm.
  7. Yet you have not listened to me, says Yahweh; that you may provoke me to anger with the work of your hands to your own hurt.
  8. so basically thus says Yahweh of Armies: cuz you have not heard my words,
  9. check this out, I will send and grab all the families of the north, says Yahweh, and I will send to Nebuchadnezzar the ruler of Babylon, my helper, and will bring them against this land, and against its inhabitants, and against all these nations around; and I will utterly tear down them, and create them an astonishment, and a hissing, and perpetual desolations.
 10. Moreover I will grab from them the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the sound of the millstones, and the light of the lamp.
 11. This whole land shall be a desolation, and an astonishment; and these nations shall help out the ruler of Babylon seventy years.
 12. It shall happen, when seventy years are accomplished, that I will punish the ruler of Babylon, and that nation, says Yahweh, for their iniquity, and the land of the Chaldeans; and I will create it desolate forever.
 13. I will bring on that land all my words which I have pronounced against it, even all that is written in this book, which Jeremiah has prophesied against all the nations.
 14. For a lot nations and major kings shall create bondservants of them, even of them; and I will recompense them according to their deeds, and according to the work of their hands.
 15. For thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, to me: grab this cup of the wine of wrath at my hand, and cause all the nations, to whom I send you, to drink it.
 16. They shall drink, and reel back and forth, and be mad, cuz of the sword that I will send among them.
 17. then took I the cup at Yahweh’s hand, and made all the nations to drink, to whom Yahweh had sent me:
 18. Jerusalem, and the cities of Judah, and its kings, and its princes, to create them a desolation, an astonishment, a hissing, and a curse, as it is this day;
 19. Pharaoh ruler of Egypt, and his servants, and his princes, and all his people;
 20. and all the mixed people, and all the kings of the land of the Uz, and all the kings of the Philistines, and Ashkelon, and Gaza, and Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod;
 21. Edom, and Moab, and the children of Ammon;
 22. and all the kings of Tyre, and all the kings of Sidon, and the kings of the isle which is beyond the sea;
 23. Dedan, and Tema, and Buz, and all who have the corners of their beard cut off;
 24. and all the kings of Arabia, and all the kings of the mixed people who dwell in the wilderness;
 25. and all the kings of Zimri, and all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of the Medes;
 26. and all the kings of the north, far and near, one with another; and all the kingdoms of the world, which are on the surface of the earth: and the ruler of Sheshach shall drink after them.
 27. You shall tell them, Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: Drink, and be drunk, vomit, fall, and rise no more, cuz of the sword which I will send among you.
 28. It shall be, if they refuse to grab the cup at your hand to drink, then you shall tell them, Thus says Yahweh of Armies: You shall surely drink.
 29. For, check this out, I begin to work evil at the city which is called by my name; and should you be utterly unpunished? You shall not be unpunished; for I will call for a sword on all the inhabitants of the earth, says Yahweh of Armies.
 30. so basically prophesy you against them all these words, and tell them, Yahweh will roar from on high, and utter his voice from his set apart habitation; he will mightily roar against his fold; he will hook it up a shout, as those who tread grapes, against all the inhabitants of the earth.
 31. A noise shall come through even to the end of the earth; for Yahweh has a controversy with the nations; he will enter into judgment with all flesh: as for the wicked, he will hook it up them to the sword, says Yahweh.
 32. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, check this out, evil shall slide forth from nation to nation, and a major storm shall be raised up from the uttermost parts of the earth.
 33. The slain of Yahweh shall be at that day from one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth: they shall not be lamented, neither gathered, nor buried; they shall be dung on the surface of the ground.
 34. Wail, you shepherds, and cry; and wallow in dust, you principal of the flock; for the days of your slaughter and of your dispersions are fully come through, and you shall fall like a goodly vessel.
 35. The shepherds shall have no way to flee, nor the principal of the flock to escape.
 36. A voice of the cry of the shepherds, and the wailing of the principal of the flock! for Yahweh lays waste their pasture.
 37. The peaceable folds are brought to silence cuz of the fierce anger of Yahweh.
 38. He has left his covert, as the lion; for their land has become an astonishment cuz of the fierceness of the oppression, and cuz of his fierce anger.
