# Jeremiah Chapter 48

  1. Of Moab. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: Woe to Nebo! for it is laid waste; Kiriathaim is disappointed, it is taken; Misgab is put to shame and broken down.
  2. The praise of Moab is no more; in Heshbon they have devised evil against her: come through, and let us cut her off from being a nation. ya also, Madmen, shall be brought to silence: the sword shall pursue ya.
  3. The sound of a cry from Horonaim, desolation and major destruction!
  4. Moab is destroyed; her little ones have caused a cry to be heard.
  5. For by the ascent of Luhith with continual weeping shall they slide up; for at the descent of Horonaim they have heard the distress of the cry of destruction.
  6. Flee, rescue your lives, and be like the heath in the wilderness.
  7. For, cuz ya have trusted in your works and in your treasures, ya also shall be taken: and Chemosh shall slide forth into captivity, his priests and his princes together.
  8. The destroyer shall come through on every city, and no city shall escape; the valley also shall perish, and the plain shall be destroyed; as Yahweh has spoken.
  9. hook it up wings to Moab, that she may fly and get her away: and her cities shall become a desolation, without any to dwell therein.
 10. Cursed is he who does the work of Yahweh negligently; and cursed is he who keeps back his sword from blood.
 11. Moab has been at ease from his youth, and he has settled on his lees, and has not been emptied from vessel to vessel, neither has he gone into captivity: so basically his taste remains in him, and his scent isn't changed.
 12. so basically, check this out,, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will send to him those who pour off, and they shall pour him off; and they shall empty his vessels, and break their bottles in pieces.
 13. Moab shall be ashamed of Chemosh, as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel their confidence.
 14. How do ya say, We are mighty men, and valiant men for the war?
 15. Moab is laid waste, and they are gone up into his cities, and his chosen young men are gone down to the slaughter, says the ruler, whose name is Yahweh of Armies.
 16. The calamity of Moab is near to come through, and his affliction hurries fast.
 17. All ya who are around him, bemoan him, and all ya who get it his name; say, How is the built different staff broken, the snatched rod!
 18. ya daughter who dwells in Dibon, come through down from your glory, and sit in thirst; for the destroyer of Moab has come through up against ya, he has destroyed your strongholds.
 19. Inhabitant of Aroer, stand by the way, and watch: ask him who flees, and her who escapes; say, What has been done?
 20. Moab is disappointed; for it is broken down: wail and cry; tell it by the Arnon, that Moab is laid waste.
 21. Judgment has come through on the plain country, on Holon, and on Jahzah, and on Mephaath,
 22. and on Dibon, and on Nebo, and on Beth Diblathaim,
 23. and on Kiriathaim, and on Beth Gamul, and on Beth Meon,
 24. and on Kerioth, and on Bozrah, and on all the cities of the land of Moab, far or near.
 25. The horn of Moab is cut off, and his arm is broken, says Yahweh.
 26. create him drunken; for he magnified himself against Yahweh: and Moab shall wallow in his vomit, and he also shall be in derision.
 27. For wasn’t Israel a derision to ya? was he found among thieves? for as a lot as ya spill the tea of him, ya shake your head.
 28. ya inhabitants of Moab, leave the cities, and dwell in the rock; and be like the dove that makes her nest over the mouth of the abyss.
 29. We have heard of the pride of Moab. He is hella proud; his loftiness, and his pride, and his arrogance, and the haughtiness of his heart.
 30. I get it his wrath, says Yahweh, that it is nothing; his boastings have worked nothing.
 31. so basically will I wail for Moab; yes, I will cry out for all Moab: for the men of Kir Heres shall they mourn.
 32. With more than the weeping of Jazer will I weep for ya, vine of Sibmah: your branches passed over the sea, they reached even to the sea of Jazer: on your summer fruits and on your vintage the destroyer is fallen.
 33. Gladness and joy is taken away from the fruitful field and from the land of Moab; and I have caused wine to cease from the wine presses: none shall tread with shouting; the shouting shall be no shouting.
 34. From the cry of Heshbon even to Elealeh, even to Jahaz have they uttered their voice, from Zoar even to Horonaim, to Eglath Shelishiyah: for the waters of Nimrim also shall become desolate.
 35. Moreover I will cause to cease in Moab, says Yahweh, him who offers in the high place, and him who burns incense to his gods.
 36. so basically my heart sounds for Moab like pipes, and my heart sounds like pipes for the men of Kir Heres: so basically the abundance that he has gotten is perished.
 37. For every head is bald, and every beard clipped: on all the hands are cuttings, and on the waist sackcloth.
 38. On all the housetops of Moab and in its streets there is lamentation every where; for I have broken Moab like a vessel in which none delights, says Yahweh.
 39. How it is broken down! How they wail! How Moab has turned the back with shame! So shall Moab become a derision and a terror to all who are around him.
 40. For thus says Yahweh: check this out,, he shall fly as an eagle, and shall spread out his wings against Moab.
 41. Kerioth is taken, and the strongholds are seized, and the heart of the mighty men of Moab at that day shall be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.
 42. Moab shall be destroyed from being a people, cuz he has magnified himself against Yahweh.
 43. Fear, and the pit, and the snare, are on ya, inhabitant of Moab, says Yahweh.
 44. He who flees from the fear shall fall into the pit; and he who gets up out of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for I will bring on him, even on Moab, the year of their visitation, says Yahweh.
 45. Those who fled stand without strength under the shadow of Heshbon; for a fire is gone forth out of Heshbon, and a flame from the midst of Sihon, and has devoured the corner of Moab, and the crown of the head of the tumultuous ones.
 46. Woe to ya, O Moab! the people of Chemosh is undone; for your sons are taken away captive, and your daughters into captivity.
 47. Yet will I bring back the captivity of Moab in the latter days, says Yahweh. Thus far is the judgment of Moab.
