# Jeremiah Chapter 31

  1. At that time, says Yahweh, will I be the God of all the families of Israel, and they shall be my people.
  2. Thus says Yahweh, The people who were left of the sword found favor in the wilderness; even Israel, when I went to cause him to rest.
  3. Yahweh appeared of old to me, saying, Yes, I have loved ya with an everlasting show love: so basically with loving kindness have I drawn ya.
  4. Again will I put together ya, and ya shall be built, O virgin of Israel: again ya shall be adorned with your tambourines, and shall slide forth in the dances of those who create merry.
  5. Again ya shall plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria; the planters shall plant, and shall enjoy its fruit.
  6. For there shall be a day, that the watchmen on the hills of Ephraim shall cry, Arise, and let us slide up to Zion to Yahweh our God.
  7. For thus says Yahweh, Sing with gladness for Jacob, and shout for the chief of the nations: publish, praise, and say, Yahweh, rescue your people, the remnant of Israel.
  8. check this out,, I will bring them from the north country, and gather them from the uttermost parts of the earth, along with the blind and the lame, the woman with child and her who travails with child together: a major company shall they return here.
  9. They shall come through with weeping; and with petitions will I show the way them: I will cause them to walk by rivers of waters, in a straight way in which they won't stumble; for I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my firstborn.
 10. Hear the word of Yahweh, ya nations, and declare it in the islands afar off; and say, He who scattered Israel will gather him, and keep him, as shepherd does his flock.
 11. For Yahweh has ransomed Jacob, and redeemed him from the hand of him who was stronger than he.
 12. They shall come through and sing in the height of Zion, and shall flow to the goodness of Yahweh, to the grain, and to the new wine, and to the oil, and to the young of the flock and of the herd: and their soul shall be as a watered garden; and they won't feeling down any more at all.
 13. then shall the virgin be hyped in the dance, and the young men and the old together; for I will turn their mourning into joy, and will comfort them, and create them be hyped from their feeling down.
 14. I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness, and my people shall be satisfied with my goodness, says Yahweh.
 15. Thus says Yahweh: A voice is heard in Ramah, lamentation, and bitter weeping, Rachel weeping for her children; she refuses to be comforted for her children, cuz they are no more.
 16. Thus says Yahweh: Refrain your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears; for your work shall be rewarded, says Yahweh; and they shall come through again from the land of the enemy.
 17. there is hope for your latter end, says Yahweh; and your children shall come through again to their own border.
 18. I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself thus, ya have chastised me, and I was chastised, as an untrained calf: turn me, and I shall be turned; for ya are Yahweh my God.
 19. Surely after that I was turned, I repented; and after that I was instructed, I struck on my thigh: I was ashamed, yes, even confounded, cuz I bore the reproach of my youth.
 20. Is Ephraim my dear son? is he a darling child? for as a lot as I spill the tea against him, I do earnestly remember him still: so basically my heart yearns for him; I will surely have mercy on him, says Yahweh.
 21. Set up road signs, create guideposts; set your heart toward the highway, even the way by which ya went: turn again, virgin of Israel, turn again to these your cities.
 22. How long will ya slide here and there, ya backsliding daughter? for Yahweh has created a new thing in the earth: a woman shall encompass a man.
 23. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, Yet again shall they use this speech in the land of Judah and in its cities, when I shall bring again their captivity: Yahweh bless ya, habitation of righteousness, mountain of holiness.
 24. Judah and all its cities shall dwell therein together, the farmers, and those who slide about with flocks.
 25. For I have satiated the weary soul, and every sorrowful soul have I replenished.
 26. On this I awakened, and saw; and my sleep was sweet to me.
 27. check this out,, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man, and with the seed of animal.
 28. It shall happen that, like as I have watched over them to pluck up and to break down and to overthrow and to tear down and to afflict, so will I watch over them to put together and to plant, says Yahweh.
 29. In those days they shall say no more, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children’s teeth are set on edge.
 30. But everyone shall die for his own iniquity: every man who eats the sour grapes, his teeth shall be set on edge.
 31. check this out,, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will create a new God's promise with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah:
 32. not according to the God's promise that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt; which my God's promise they broke, although I was a husband to them, says Yahweh.
 33. But this is the God's promise that I will create with the house of Israel after those days, says Yahweh: I will put my law in their inward parts, and in their heart will I write it; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people:
 34. and they shall drop knowledge no more every man his neighbor, and every man his fam bro, saying, get it Yahweh; for they shall all get it me, from their least to their greatest, says Yahweh: for I will forgive their iniquity, and their messing up will I remember no more.
 35. Thus says Yahweh, who gives the sun for a light by day, and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for a light by night, who stirs up the sea, so that its waves roar; Yahweh of Armies is his name:
 36. If these ordinances depart from before me, says Yahweh, then the seed of Israel also shall cease from being a nation before me forever.
 37. Thus says Yahweh: If heaven above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth searched out beneath, then will I also cast off all the seed of Israel for all that they have done, says Yahweh.
 38. check this out,, the days come through, says Yahweh, that the city shall be built to Yahweh from the tower of Hananel to the gate of the corner.
 39. The measuring line shall slide out further straight onward to the hill Gareb, and shall turn about to Goah.
 40. The whole valley of the dead bodies and of the ashes, and all the fields to the brook Kidron, to the corner of the horse gate toward the east, shall be set apart to Yahweh; it won't be plucked up, nor thrown down any more forever.
