# Jeremiah Chapter 36

  1. It happened in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, that this word came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying,
  2. grab a scroll of a book, and write therein all the words that I have spoken to you against Israel, and against Judah, and against all the nations, from the day I spoke to you, from the days of Josiah, even to this day.
  3. It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I purpose to do to them; that they may return every man from his evil way; that I may forgive their iniquity and their messing up.
  4. then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah; and Baruch wrote from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of Yahweh, which he had spoken to him, on a scroll of a book.
  5. Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, I am shut up; I can’t slide into the house of Yahweh:
  6. so basically you slide, and read in the scroll, which you have written from my mouth, the words of Yahweh in the ears of the people in Yahweh’s house on the fast day; and also you shall read them in the ears of all Judah who come through out of their cities.
  7. It may be they will present their supplication before Yahweh, and will return everyone from his evil way; for major is the anger and the wrath that Yahweh has pronounced against this people.
  8. Baruch the son of Neriah did according to all that Jeremiah the God's messenger commanded him, reading in the book the words of Yahweh in Yahweh’s house.
  9. now it happened in the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, in the ninth month, that all the people in Jerusalem, and all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem, proclaimed a fast before Yahweh.
 10. then read Baruch in the book the words of Jeremiah in the house of Yahweh, in the room of Gemariah the son of Shaphan, the scribe, in the upper court, at the entry of the new gate of Yahweh’s house, in the ears of all the people.
 11. When Micaiah the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had heard out of the book all the words of Yahweh,
 12. he went down into the ruler’s house, into the scribe’s room: and check this out, all the princes were sitting there, Elishama the scribe, and Delaiah the son of Shemaiah, and Elnathan the son of Achbor, and Gemariah the son of Shaphan, and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the princes.
 13. then Micaiah declared to them all the words that he had heard, when Baruch read the book in the ears of the people.
 14. so basically all the princes sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, to Baruch, saying, grab in your hand the scroll in which you have read in the ears of the people, and come through. So Baruch the son of Neriah took the scroll in his hand, and came to them.
 15. They said to him, Sit down now, and read it in our ears. So Baruch read it in their ears.
 16. now it happened, when they had heard all the words, they turned in fear one toward another, and said to Baruch, We will surely tell the ruler of all these words.
 17. They asked Baruch, saying, Tell us now, How did you write all these words at his mouth?
 18. then Baruch answered them, He pronounced all these words to me with his mouth, and I wrote them with ink in the book.
 19. then the princes said to Baruch, slide, hide, you and Jeremiah; and let no man get it where you are.
 20. They went in to the ruler into the court; but they had laid up the scroll in the room of Elishama the scribe; and they told all the words in the ears of the ruler.
 21. So the ruler sent Jehudi to get the scroll; and he took it out of the room of Elishama the scribe. Jehudi read it in the ears of the ruler, and in the ears of all the princes who stood beside the ruler.
 22. now the ruler was sitting in the winter house in the ninth month: and there was a fire in the brazier burning before him.
 23. It happened, when Jehudi had read three or four leaves, that the ruler cut it with the penknife, and cast it into the fire that was in the brazier, until all the scroll was consumed in the fire that was in the brazier.
 24. They were not scared, nor tore their garments, neither the ruler, nor any of his servants who heard all these words.
 25. Moreover Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah had made intercession to the ruler that he would not burn the scroll; but he would not hear them.
 26. The ruler commanded Jerahmeel the ruler’s son, and Seraiah the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel, to grab Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the God's messenger; but Yahweh hid them.
 27. then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, after that the ruler had burned the scroll, and the words which Baruch wrote at the mouth of Jeremiah, saying,
 28. grab again another scroll, and write in it all the former words that were in the first scroll, which Jehoiakim the ruler of Judah has burned.
 29. Concerning Jehoiakim ruler of Judah you shall say, Thus says Yahweh: You have burned this scroll, saying, Why have you written therein, saying, The ruler of Babylon shall for sure come through and tear down this land, and shall cause to cease from there man and animal?
 30. so basically thus says Yahweh concerning Jehoiakim ruler of Judah: He shall have none to sit on the throne of David; and his dead body shall be cast out in the day to the heat, and in the night to the frost.
 31. I will punish him and his seed and his servants for their iniquity; and I will bring on them, and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and on the men of Judah, all the evil that I have pronounced against them, but they didn’t listen up.
 32. then took Jeremiah another scroll, and gave it to Baruch the scribe, the son of Neriah, who wrote therein from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim ruler of Judah had burned in the fire; and there were added besides to them a lot like words.
