# Jeremiah Chapter 17

  1. The messing up of Judah is written with a pen of iron, and with the point of a diamond: it is engraved on the tablet of their heart, and on the horns of your altars;
  2. while their children remember their altars and their Asherim by the green trees on the high hills.
  3. My mountain in the field, I will hook it up your substance and all your treasures for a spoil, and your high places, cuz of messing up, throughout all your borders.
  4. ya, even of yourself, shall discontinue from your heritage that I gave ya; and I will cause ya to help out out your enemies in the land which ya don’t get it: for ya have kindled a fire in my anger which shall burn forever.
  5. Thus says Yahweh: Cursed is the man who trusts in man, and makes flesh his arm, and whose heart departs from Yahweh.
  6. For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and won't check it out when fire comes, but shall inhabit the parched places in the wilderness, a salt land and not inhabited.
  7. blessed up is the man who trusts in Yahweh, and whose trust Yahweh is.
  8. For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, who spreads out its roots by the river, and won't fear when heat comes, but its leaf shall be green; and won't be careful in the year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding fruit.
  9. The heart is deceitful above all things, and it is exceedingly corrupt: who can get it it?
 10. I, Yahweh, search the mind, I try the heart, even to hook it up every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his doings.
 11. As the partridge that sits on eggs which she has not laid, so is he who gets riches, and not by right; in the midst of his days they shall leave him, and at his end he shall be a fool.
 12. A glorious throne, set on high from the beginning, is the place of our sanctuary.
 13. Yahweh, the hope of Israel, all who forsake ya shall be disappointed. Those who depart from me shall be written in the earth, cuz they have forsaken Yahweh, the spring of living waters.
 14. Heal me, O Yahweh, and I shall be healed; rescue me, and I shall be saved: for ya are my praise.
 15. check this out,, they tell me, Where is the word of Yahweh? let it come through now.
 16. As for me, I have not hurried from being a shepherd after ya; neither have I desired the woeful day; ya get it: that which came out of my lips was before your face.
 17. Don’t be a terror to me: ya are my refuge in the day of evil.
 18. Let them be disappointed who persecute me, but let not me be disappointed; let them be dismayed, but don’t let me be dismayed; bring on them the day of evil, and tear down them with double destruction.
 19. Thus said Yahweh to me: slide, and stand in the gate of the children of the people, through which the kings of Judah come through in, and by which they slide out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem;
 20. and tell them, Hear the word of Yahweh, ya kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, that enter in by these gates:
 21. Thus says Yahweh, grab heed to yourselves, and bear no burden on the Sabbath day, nor bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem;
 22. neither carry forth a burden out of your houses on the Sabbath day set apart, neither do any work: but create the Sabbath day, as I commanded your fathers.
 23. But they didn’t listen up, neither turn their ear, but made their neck stiff, that they might not hear, and might not receive instruction.
 24. It shall happen, if ya diligently listen up to me, says Yahweh, to bring in no burden through the gates of this city on the Sabbath day, but to create the Sabbath day set apart, to do no work therein;
 25. then shall there enter in by the gates of this city kings and princes sitting on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they, and their princes, the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and this city shall remain forever.
 26. They shall come through from the cities of Judah, and from the places around Jerusalem, and from the land of Benjamin, and from the lowland, and from the hill country, and from the South, bringing burnt offerings, and sacrifices, and meal offerings, and frankincense, and bringing sacrifices of thanksgiving, to the house of Yahweh.
 27. But if ya won't listen up to me to create the Sabbath day set apart, and not to bear a burden and enter in at the gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath day; then will I kindle a fire in its gates, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it won't be quenched.
