# Jeremiah Chapter 42

  1. then all the captains of the forces, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and Jezaniah the son of Hoshaiah, and all the people from the least even to the greatest, came near,
  2. and said to Jeremiah the God's messenger, Please let our supplication be presented before you, and pray for us to Yahweh your God, even for all this remnant; for we are left but a not much of a lot, as your eyes do check it out us:
  3. that Yahweh your God may show us the way in which we should walk, and the thing that we should do.
  4. then Jeremiah the God's messenger said to them, I have heard you; check this out, I will pray to Yahweh your God according to your words; and it shall happen that whatever thing Yahweh shall answer you, I will declare it to you; I will keep nothing back from you.
  5. then they said to Jeremiah, Yahweh be a true and faithful witness among us, if we don’t do according to all the word with which Yahweh your God shall send you to us.
  6. Whether it be fire, or whether it be evil, we will obey the voice of Yahweh our God, to whom we send you; that it may be well with us, when we obey the voice of Yahweh our God.
  7. It happened after ten days, that the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah.
  8. then called he Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces who were with him, and all the people from the least even to the greatest,
  9. and said to them, Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, to whom you sent me to present your supplication before him:
 10. If you will still live in this land, then will I put together you, and not pull you down, and I will plant you, and not pluck you up; for I grieve over the distress that I have brought on you.
 11. Don’t be scared of the ruler of Babylon, of whom you are scared; don’t be scared of him, says Yahweh: for I am with you to rescue you, and to deliver you from his hand.
 12. I will grant you mercy, that he may have mercy on you, and cause you to return to your own land.
 13. But if you say, We will not dwell in this land; so that you don’t obey the voice of Yahweh your God,
 14. saying, No; but we will slide into the land of Egypt, where we shall check it out no war, nor hear the sound of the trumpet, nor have hunger of bread; and there will we dwell:
 15. now so basically hear the word of Yahweh, O remnant of Judah: Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, If you facts set your faces to enter into Egypt, and slide to live there;
 16. then it shall happen, that the sword, which you fear, shall overtake you there in the land of Egypt; and the famine, about which you are scared, shall roll with close behind you there in Egypt; and there you shall die.
 17. So shall it be with all the men who set their faces to slide into Egypt to live there: they shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence; and none of them shall remain or escape from the evil that I will bring on them.
 18. For thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: As my anger and my wrath has been poured forth on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so shall my wrath be poured forth on you, when you shall enter into Egypt; and you shall be an object of horror, and an astonishment, and a curse, and a reproach; and you shall check it out this place no more.
 19. Yahweh has spoken concerning you, remnant of Judah, Don’t you slide into Egypt: get it for sure that I have testified to you this day.
 20. For you have dealt deceitfully against your own souls; for you sent me to Yahweh your God, saying, Pray for us to Yahweh our God; and according to all that Yahweh our God shall say, so declare to us, and we will do it:
 21. and I have this day declared it to you; but you have not obeyed the voice of Yahweh your God in anything for which he has sent me to you.
 22. now so basically get it for sure that you shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence, in the place where you desire to slide to live there.
