# Jeremiah Chapter 38

  1. Shephatiah the son of Mattan, and Gedaliah the son of Pashhur, and Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashhur the son of Malchijah, heard the words that Jeremiah spoke to all the people, saying,
  2. Thus says Yahweh, He who remains in this city shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence; but he who goes forth to the Chaldeans shall live, and his life shall be to him for a prey, and he shall live.
  3. Thus says Yahweh, This city shall surely be given into the hand of the army of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall grab it.
  4. then the princes said to the ruler, “Please let this man be put to death; cuz he weakens the hands of the men of war who remain in this city, and the hands of all the people, in speaking such words to them: for this man doesn’t seek the welfare of this people, but the hurt.”
  5. Zedekiah the ruler said, check this out, he is in your hand; for the ruler is not he who can do anything against you.
  6. then took they Jeremiah, and cast him into the dungeon of Malchijah the ruler’s son, that was in the court of the guard: and they let down Jeremiah with cords. In the dungeon there was no water, but mire; and Jeremiah sank in the mire.
  7. now when Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, a eunuch, who was in the ruler’s house, heard that they had put Jeremiah in the dungeon (the ruler then sitting in the gate of Benjamin),
  8. Ebedmelech went forth out of the ruler’s house, and spoke to the ruler, saying,
  9. My boss the ruler, these men have done evil in all that they have done to Jeremiah the God's messenger, whom they have cast into the dungeon; and he is likely to die in the place where he is, cuz of the famine; for there is no more bread in the city.
 10. then the ruler commanded Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, grab from here thirty men with you, and grab up Jeremiah the God's messenger out of the dungeon, before he dies.
 11. So Ebedmelech took the men with him, and went into the house of the ruler under the treasury, and took there rags and worn-out garments, and let them down by cords into the dungeon to Jeremiah.
 12. Ebedmelech the Ethiopian said to Jeremiah, Put now these rags and worn-out garments under your armpits under the cords. Jeremiah did so.
 13. So they drew up Jeremiah with the cords, and took him up out of the dungeon: and Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard.
 14. then Zedekiah the ruler sent, and took Jeremiah the God's messenger to him into the third entry that is in the house of Yahweh: and the ruler said to Jeremiah, I will ask you something. Hide nothing from me.
 15. then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, If I declare it to you, will you not surely put me to death? and if I hook it up you counsel, you will not listen up to me.
 16. So Zedekiah the ruler swore secretly to Jeremiah, saying, As Yahweh lives, who made us this soul, I will not put you to death, neither will I hook it up you into the hand of these men who seek your life.
 17. then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, Thus says Yahweh, the God of Armies, the God of Israel: If you will slide forth to the ruler of Babylon’s princes, then your soul shall live, and this city shall not be burned with fire; and you shall live, and your house.
 18. But if you will not slide forth to the ruler of Babylon’s princes, then shall this city be given into the hand of the Chaldeans, and they shall burn it with fire, and you shall not escape out of their hand.
 19. Zedekiah the ruler said to Jeremiah, I am scared of the Jews who are fallen away to the Chaldeans, lest they deliver me into their hand, and they mock me.
 20. But Jeremiah said, They shall not deliver you. Obey, I beg you, the voice of Yahweh, in that which I spill the tea to you: so it shall be well with you, and your soul shall live.
 21. But if you refuse to slide forth, this is the word that Yahweh has shown me:
 22. check this out, all the women who are left in the ruler of Judah’s house shall be brought forth to the ruler of Babylon’s princes, and those women shall say, Your familiar friends have set you on, and have prevailed over you. Your feet are sunk in the mire, they have turned away back.
 23. They shall bring out all your wives and your children to the Chaldeans; and you shall not escape out of their hand, but shall be taken by the hand of the ruler of Babylon: and you shall cause this city to be burned with fire.
 24. then Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, Let no man get it of these words, and you shall not die.
 25. But if the princes hear that I have talked with you, and they come through to you, and tell you, Declare to us now what you have said to the ruler; don’t hide it from us, and we will not put you to death; also what the ruler said to you:
 26. then you shall tell them, I presented my supplication before the ruler, that he would not cause me to return to Jonathan’s house, to die there.
 27. then came all the princes to Jeremiah, and asked him; and he told them according to all these words that the ruler had commanded. So they left off speaking with him; for the matter was not perceived.
 28. So Jeremiah stayed in the court of the guard until the day that Jerusalem was taken.
