# Jeremiah Chapter 28

  1. It happened the same year, at the start of the reign of Zedekiah ruler of Judah, in the fourth year, in the fifth month, that Hananiah the son of Azzur, the God's messenger, who was of Gibeon, spoke to me in the house of Yahweh, in the presence of the priests and of all the people, saying,
  2. Thus speaks Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, saying, I have broken the yoke of the ruler of Babylon.
  3. Within two full years will I bring again into this place all the vessels of Yahweh’s house, that Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon took away from this place, and carried to Babylon:
  4. and I will bring again to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, ruler of Judah, with all the captives of Judah, who went to Babylon, says Yahweh; for I will break the yoke of the ruler of Babylon.
  5. then the God's messenger Jeremiah said to the God's messenger Hananiah in the presence of the priests, and in the presence of all the people who stood in the house of Yahweh,
  6. even the God's messenger Jeremiah said, facts: Yahweh do so; Yahweh perform your words which you have prophesied, to bring again the vessels of Yahweh’s house, and all them of the captivity, from Babylon to this place.
  7. Nevertheless hear you now this word that I spill the tea in your ears, and in the ears of all the people:
  8. The prophets who have been before me and before you of old prophesied against a lot countries, and against major kingdoms, of war, and of evil, and of pestilence.
  9. The God's messenger who prophesies of peace, when the word of the God's messenger shall happen, then shall the God's messenger be known, that Yahweh has deadass sent him.
 10. then Hananiah the God's messenger took the bar from off the God's messenger Jeremiah’s neck, and broke it.
 11. Hananiah spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, Thus says Yahweh: Even so will I break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon within two full years from off the neck of all the nations. The God's messenger Jeremiah went his way.
 12. then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, after that Hananiah the God's messenger had broken the bar from off the neck of the God's messenger Jeremiah, saying,
 13. slide, and tell Hananiah, saying, Thus says Yahweh: You have broken the bars of wood; but you have made in their place bars of iron.
 14. For thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: I have put a yoke of iron on the neck of all these nations, that they may help out Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon; and they shall help out him: and I have given him the animals of the field also.
 15. then the God's messenger Jeremiah said to Hananiah the God's messenger, Hear now, Hananiah: Yahweh has not sent you; but you create this people to trust in a lie.
 16. so basically thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will send you away from off the surface of the earth: this year you shall die, cuz you have spoken rebellion against Yahweh.
 17. So Hananiah the God's messenger died the same year in the seventh month.
