# Jeremiah Chapter 27

  1. at the start of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, came this word to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying,
  2. Thus says Yahweh to me: create bonds and bars, and put them on your neck;
  3. and send them to the ruler of Edom, and to the ruler of Moab, and to the ruler of the children of Ammon, and to the ruler of Tyre, and to the ruler of Sidon, by the hand of the messengers who come through to Jerusalem to Zedekiah ruler of Judah;
  4. and hook it up them a command to their masters, saying, Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, ya shall tell your masters:
  5. I have made the earth, the men and the animals that are on the surface of the earth, by my major power and by my outstretched arm; and I hook it up it to whom it seems right to me.
  6. now have I given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the ruler of Babylon, my helper; and the animals of the field also have I given him to help out out him.
  7. All the nations shall help out out him, and his son, and his son’s son, until the time of his own land come through: and then a lot nations and major kings shall create him their bondservant.
  8. It shall happen, that the nation and the God's squad which won't help out out the same Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, and that won't put their neck under the yoke of the ruler of Babylon, that nation will I punish, says Yahweh, with the sword, and with the famine, and with the pestilence, until I have consumed them by his hand.
  9. But as for ya, don’t ya listen up to your prophets, nor to your diviners, nor to your dreams, nor to your soothsayers, nor to your sorcerers, who spill the tea to ya, saying, ya won't help out out the ruler of Babylon:
 10. for they prophesy a lie to ya, to remove ya far from your land, and that I should drive ya out, and ya should perish.
 11. But the nation that shall bring their neck under the yoke of the ruler of Babylon, and help out out him, that nation will I let remain in their own land, says Yahweh; and they shall till it, and dwell therein.
 12. I spoke to Zedekiah ruler of Judah according to all these words, saying, Bring your necks under the yoke of the ruler of Babylon, and help out out him and his people, and live.
 13. Why will ya die, ya and your people, by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence, as Yahweh has spoken concerning the nation that won't help out out the ruler of Babylon?
 14. Don’t listen up to the words of the prophets who spill the tea to ya, saying, ya won't help out out the ruler of Babylon; for they prophesy a lie to ya.
 15. For I have not sent them, says Yahweh, but they prophesy falsely in my name; that I may drive ya out, and that ya may perish, ya, and the prophets who prophesy to ya.
 16. Also I spoke to the priests and to all this people, saying, Thus says Yahweh: Don’t listen up to the words of your prophets who prophesy to ya, saying, check this out,, the vessels of Yahweh’s house shall now shortly be brought again from Babylon; for they prophesy a lie to ya.
 17. Don’t listen up to them; help out out the ruler of Babylon, and live: why should this city become a desolation?
 18. But if they be prophets, and if the word of Yahweh be with them, let them now create intercession to Yahweh of Armies, that the vessels which are left in the house of Yahweh, and in the house of the ruler of Judah, and at Jerusalem, don’t slide to Babylon.
 19. For thus says Yahweh of Armies concerning the pillars, and concerning the sea, and concerning the bases, and concerning the residue of the vessels that are left in this city,
 20. which Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon didn’t grab, when he carried away captive Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, ruler of Judah, from Jerusalem to Babylon, and all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem;
 21. yes, thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, concerning the vessels that are left in the house of Yahweh, and in the house of the ruler of Judah, and at Jerusalem:
 22. They shall be carried to Babylon, and there shall they be, until the day that I visit them, says Yahweh; then will I bring them up, and restore them to this place.
