# Judges Chapter 11

  1. now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a prostitute: and Gilead became the father of Jephthah.
  2. Gilead’s wife bore him sons; and when his wife’s sons grew up, they drove out Jephthah, and said to him, “ya won't inherit in our father’s house; for ya are the son of another woman.”
  3. then Jephthah fled from his brothers, and lived in the land of Tob: and there were gathered vain fellows to Jephthah, and they went out with him.
  4. It happened after a while, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
  5. It was so, that when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to get Jephthah out of the land of Tob;
  6. and they said to Jephthah, “come through and be our chief, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.”
  7. Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, “Didn’t ya can't stand me, and drive me out of my father’s house? Why have ya come through to me now when ya are in distress?”
  8. The elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, “so basically we have turned again to ya now, that ya may slide with us, and fight with the children of Ammon; and ya shall be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.”
  9. Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, “If ya bring me home again to fight with the children of Ammon, and Yahweh deliver them before me, shall I be your head?”
 10. The elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, “Yahweh shall be witness between us; surely according to your word so will we do.”
 11. then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them: and Jephthah spoke all his words before Yahweh in Mizpah.
 12. Jephthah sent messengers to the ruler of the children of Ammon, saying, “What have ya to do with me, that ya have come through to me to fight against my land?”
 13. The ruler of the children of Ammon answered to the messengers of Jephthah, “cuz Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and to the Jordan: now so basically restore that territory again peaceably.”
 14. Jephthah sent messengers again to the ruler of the children of Ammon;
 15. and he said to him, “Thus says Jephthah: Israel didn’t grab away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon,
 16. but when they came up from Egypt, and Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
 17. then Israel sent messengers to the ruler of Edom, saying, ‘Please let me pass through your land;’ but the ruler of Edom didn’t listen up. In the same way, he sent to the ruler of Moab; but he would not: and Israel stayed in Kadesh.
 18. then they went through the wilderness, and went around the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and they encamped on the other side of the Arnon; but they didn’t come through within the border of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
 19. Israel sent messengers to Sihon ruler of the Amorites, the ruler of Heshbon; and Israel said to him, ‘Please let us pass through your land to my place.’
 20. But Sihon didn’t trust Israel to pass through his border; but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
 21. Yahweh, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they struck them: so Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country.
 22. They possessed all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to the Jordan.
 23. So now Yahweh, the God of Israel, has dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel, and should ya possess them?
 24. Won’t ya possess that which Chemosh your God gives ya to possess? So whoever Yahweh our God has dispossessed from before us, them will we possess.
 25. now are ya anything better than Balak the son of Zippor, ruler of Moab? Did he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever fight against them?
 26. While Israel lived in Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the cities that are along by the side of the Arnon, three hundred years; why didn’t ya recover them within that time?
 27. I so basically have not sinned against ya, but ya do me wrong to war against me. Yahweh, the Judge, be judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.”
 28. but like the ruler of the children of Ammon didn’t listen up to the words of Jephthah which he sent him.
 29. then the Spirit of Yahweh came on Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpeh of Gilead, and from Mizpeh of Gilead he passed over to the children of Ammon.
 30. Jephthah vowed a vow to Yahweh, and said, “If ya will facts deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
 31. then it shall be, that whatever comes forth from the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, it shall be Yahweh’s, and I will offer it up for a burnt giving to God.”
 32. So Jephthah passed over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Yahweh delivered them into his hand.
 33. He struck them from Aroer until ya come through to Minnith, even twenty cities, and to Abelcheramim, with a hella major slaughter. So the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
 34. Jephthah came to Mizpah to his house; and check this out,, his daughter came out to meet him with tambourines and with dances: and she was his only child; besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
 35. It happened, when he saw her, that he tore his clothes, and said, “Alas, my daughter! ya have brought me hella low, and ya are one of those who trouble me; for I have opened my mouth to Yahweh, and I can’t slide back.”
 36. She said to him, “My father, ya have opened your mouth to Yahweh; do to me according to that which has proceeded out of your mouth, cuz Yahweh has taken vengeance for ya on your enemies, even on the children of Ammon.”
 37. She said to her father, “Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may depart and slide down on the mountains, and bewail my virginity, I and my companions.”
 38. He said, “slide.” He sent her away for two months: and she departed, she and her companions, and mourned her virginity on the mountains.
 39. It happened at the end of two months, that she returned to her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed: and she was a virgin. It was a custom in Israel,
 40. that the daughters of Israel went yearly to celebrate the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year.
