# Judges Chapter 12

  1. The men of Ephraim were gathered together, and passed northward; and they said to Jephthah, “Why did ya pass over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didn’t call us to slide with ya? We will burn your house around ya with fire!”
  2. Jephthah said to them, “I and my people were at major strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called ya, ya didn’t rescue me out of their hand.
  3. When I saw that ya didn’t rescue me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Yahweh delivered them into my hand. Why then have ya come through up to me this day, to fight against me?”
  4. then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead struck Ephraim, cuz they said, “ya are fugitives of Ephraim, ya Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim, and in the midst of Manasseh.”
  5. The Gileadites took the fords of the Jordan against the Ephraimites. It was so, that when the fugitives of Ephraim said, “Let me slide over,” the men of Gilead said to him, “Are ya an Ephraimite?” If he said, “No;”
  6. then they said to him, “now say ‘Shibboleth;’” and he said “Sibboleth;” for he couldn’t manage to pronounce it right: then they siezed him, and killed him at the fords of the Jordan. At that time, forty-two thousand of Ephraim fell.
  7. Jephthah judged Israel six years. then Jephthah the Gileadite died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
  8. After him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.
  9. He had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent abroad, and thirty daughters he brought in from abroad for his sons. He judged Israel seven years.
 10. Ibzan died, and was buried at Bethlehem.
 11. After him Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
 12. Elon the Zebulunite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
 13. After him Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel.
 14. He had forty sons and thirty sons’ sons, who rode on seventy donkey colts: and he judged Israel eight years.
 15. Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill country of the Amalekites.
