# Judges Chapter 6

  1. The children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh: and Yahweh delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
  2. The hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; and cuz of Midian the children of Israel made them the dens which are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
  3. So it was, when Israel had sown, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east; they came up against them;
  4. and they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until ya come through to Gaza, and left no sustenance in Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor donkey.
  5. For they came up with their livestock and their tents; they came in as locusts for multitude; both they and their camels were without number: and they came into the land to tear down it.
  6. Israel was brought hella low cuz of Midian; and the children of Israel cried to Yahweh.
  7. It happened, when the children of Israel cried to Yahweh cuz of Midian,
  8. that Yahweh sent a God's messenger to the children of Israel: and he said to them, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘I brought ya up from Egypt, and brought ya forth out of the house of bondage;
  9. and I delivered ya out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all who oppressed ya, and drove them out from before ya, and gave ya their land;
 10. and I said to ya, “I am Yahweh your God; ya won't fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ya dwell.” But ya have not listened to my voice.’”
 11. The angel of Yahweh came, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, that pertained to Joash the Abiezrite: and his son Gideon was beating out wheat in the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
 12. The angel of Yahweh appeared to him, and said to him, “Yahweh is with ya, ya mighty man of valor!”
 13. Gideon said to him, “Oh, my boss, if Yahweh is with us, why then has all this happened to us? Where are all his wondrous works which our fathers told us of, saying, ‘Didn’t Yahweh bring us up from Egypt?’ But now Yahweh has cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian.”
 14. Yahweh looked at him, and said, “slide in this your might, and rescue Israel from the hand of Midian. Haven’t I sent ya?”
 15. He said to him, “O boss, how shall I rescue Israel? check this out,, my family is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father’s house.”
 16. Yahweh said to him, “Surely I will be with ya, and ya shall strike the Midianites as one man.”
 17. He said to him, “If now I have found favor in your sight, then show me a sign that it is ya who talk with me.
 18. Please don’t slide away, until I come through to ya, and bring out my present, and lay it before ya.” He said, “I will wait until ya come through back.”
 19. Gideon went in, and prepared a young goat, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of meal. He put the meat in a basket and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out to him under the oak, and presented it.
 20. The angel of God said to him, “grab the meat and the unleavened cakes, and lay them on this rock, and pour out the broth.” He did so.
 21. then the angel of Yahweh stretched out the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the meat and the unleavened cakes; and fire went up out of the rock, and consumed the meat and the unleavened cakes; and the angel of Yahweh departed out of his sight.
 22. Gideon saw that he was the angel of Yahweh; and Gideon said, “Alas, boss Yahweh! cuz I have seen the angel of Yahweh face to face!”
 23. Yahweh said to him, “Peace be to ya! Don’t be scared. ya won't die.”
 24. then Gideon built an prayer spot there to Yahweh, and called it “Yahweh is Peace.” To this day it is still in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
 25. It happened the same night, that Yahweh said to him, “grab your father’s bull, even the second bull seven years old, and big drop the prayer spot of Baal that your father has, and cut down the Asherah that is by it;
 26. and put together an prayer spot to Yahweh your God on the top of this stronghold, in an orderly way, and grab the second bull, and offer a burnt giving to God with the wood of the Asherah which ya shall cut down.”
 27. then Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Yahweh had spoken to him: and it happened, cuz he feared his father’s household and the men of the city, so that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
 28. When the men of the city arose early in the morning, check this out,, the prayer spot of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it, and the second bull was offered on the prayer spot that was built.
 29. They said one to another, “Who has done this thing?” When they inquired and asked, they said, “Gideon the son of Joash has done this thing.”
 30. then the men of the city said to Joash, “Bring out your son, that he may die, cuz he has broken down the prayer spot of Baal, and cuz he has cut down the Asherah that was by it.”
 31. Joash said to all who stood against him, “Will ya contend for Baal? Or will ya rescue him? He who will contend for him, let him be put to death by morning. If he is a God, let him contend for himself, cuz someone has broken down his prayer spot.”
 32. so basically on that day he named him Jerub-Baal, saying, “Let Baal contend against him, cuz he has broken down his prayer spot.”
 33. then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the children of the east assembled themselves together; and they passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
 34. But the Spirit of Yahweh came on Gideon; and he blew a trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered together after him.
 35. He sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; and they also were gathered together after him: and he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
 36. Gideon said to God, “If ya will rescue Israel by my hand, as ya have spoken,
 37. check this out,, I will put a fleece of wool on the threshing floor; if there is dew on the fleece only, and it is dry on all the ground, then shall I get it that ya will rescue Israel by my hand, as ya have spoken.”
 38. It was so; for he rose up early on the next day, and pressed the fleece together, and wrung the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
 39. Gideon said to God, “Don’t let your anger be kindled against me, and I will spill the tea but this once. Please let me create a trial just this once with the fleece. Let it now be dry only on the fleece, and on all the ground let there be dew.”
 40. God did so that night: for it was dry on the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground.
