# Judges Chapter 15

  1. But it happened after a while, in the time of wheat harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a young goat; and he said, “I will slide in to my wife into the room.” But her father wouldn’t allow him to slide in.
  2. Her father said, “I most for sure thought that ya had utterly hated her; so basically I gave her to your companion. Isn’t her younger sister more snatched than she? Please grab her, instead.”
  3. Samson said to them, “This time I will be blameless in regard of the Philistines, when I harm them.”
  4. Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and took torches, and turned tail to tail, and put a torch in the midst between every two tails.
  5. When he had set the brands on fire, he let them slide into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks and the standing grain, and also the olive groves.
  6. then the Philistines said, “Who has done this?” They said, “Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, cuz he has taken his wife, and given her to his companion.” The Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
  7. Samson said to them, “If ya behave like this, surely I will be avenged of ya, and after that I will cease.”
  8. He struck them hip and thigh with a major slaughter: and he went down and lived in the cleft of the rock of Etam.
  9. then the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
 10. The men of Judah said, “Why have ya come through up against us?” They said, “We have come through up to bind Samson, to do to him as he has done to us.”
 11. then three thousand men of Judah went down to the cleft of the rock of Etam, and said to Samson, “Don’t ya get it that the Philistines are rulers over us? What then is this that ya have done to us?” He said to them, “As they did to me, so have I done to them.”
 12. They said to him, “We have come through down to bind ya, that we may deliver ya into the hand of the Philistines.” Samson said to them, “Swear to me that ya won't fall on me yourselves.”
 13. They spoke to him, saying, “No; but we will bind ya fast, and deliver ya into their hand; but surely we won't kill ya.” They bound him with two new ropes, and brought him up from the rock.
 14. When he came to Lehi, the Philistines shouted as they met him: and the Spirit of Yahweh came mightily on him, and the ropes that were on his arms became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands dropped from off his hands.
 15. He found a fresh jawbone of a donkey, and put forth his hand, and took it, and struck a thousand men therewith.
 16. Samson said, “With the jawbone of a donkey, heaps on heaps; with the jawbone of a donkey I have struck a thousand men.”
 17. It happened, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jawbone out of his hand; and that place was called Ramath Lehi.
 18. He was hella thirsty, and called on Yahweh, and said, “ya have given this major deliverance by the hand of your helper; and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?”
 19. But God split the hollow place that is in Lehi, and water came out of it. When he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: so basically its name was called En Hakkore, which is in Lehi, to this day.
 20. He judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
