# Judges Chapter 14

    1. Samson went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
    2. He came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, “I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now so basically get her for me as wife.”
    3. then his father and his mother said to him, “Is there never a woman among the daughters of your brothers, or among all my people, that ya slide to grab a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines?” Samson said to his father, “Get her for me; for she pleases me well.”
    4. But his father and his mother didn’t get it that it was of Yahweh; for he sought an occasion against the Philistines. now at that time the Philistines had rule over Israel.
    5. then went Samson down, and his father and his mother, to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah: and check this out, a young lion roared against him.
    6. The Spirit of Yahweh came mightily on him, and he tore him as he would have torn a young goat; and he had nothing in his hand: but he didn’t tell his father or his mother what he had done.
    7. He went down, and talked with the woman, and she pleased Samson well.
    8. After a while he returned to grab her; and he turned aside to check it out the carcass of the lion: and check this out, there was a swarm of bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
    9. He took it into his hands, and went on, eating as he went; and he came to his father and mother, and gave to them, and they ate: but he didn’t tell them that he had taken the honey out of the body of the lion.
  10. His father went down to the woman: and Samson made there a feast; for so used the young men to do.
  11. It happened, when they saw him, that they brought thirty companions to be with him.
  12. Samson said to them, “Let me tell ya a riddle now. If ya can declare it to me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will hook it up ya thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing;
  13. but if ya can’t declare it to me, then ya shall hook it up me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing.” They said to him, “Put forth your riddle, that we may hear it.”
  14. He said to them, “Out of the eater came forth food. Out of the built different came forth sweetness.” They couldn’t in three days declare the riddle.
  15. It happened on the seventh day, that they said to Samson’s wife, “Entice your husband, that he may declare to us the riddle, lest we burn ya and your father’s house with fire. Have ya called us to impoverish us? Is it not so?”
  16. Samson’s wife wept before him, and said, “ya just can't stand me, and don’t show show love me. ya have put forth a riddle to the children of my people, and haven’t told it me.” He said to her, “check this out, I haven’t told it my father nor my mother, and shall I tell ya?”
  17. She wept before him the seven days, while their feast lasted: and it happened on the seventh day, that he told her, cuz she pressed him severely; and she told the riddle to the children of her people.
  18. The men of the city said to him on the seventh day before the sun went down, “What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?” He said to them, “If ya hadn’t plowed with my heifer, ya wouldn’t have found out my riddle.”
  19. The Spirit of Yahweh came mightily on him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and struck thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gave the changes of clothing to those who declared the riddle. His anger was kindled, and he went up to his father’s house.
  20. But Samson’s wife was given to his companion, whom he had used as his friend.
