# Judges Chapter 5

    1. then Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam sang on that day, saying,
    2. “cuz the leaders took the show the way in Israel, cuz the people offered themselves willingly, be blessed up up, Yahweh!
    3. “Hear, ya kings! hook it up ear, ya princes! I, even I, will sing to Yahweh. I will sing praise to Yahweh, the God of Israel.
    4. “Yahweh, when ya went forth out of Seir, when ya marched out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, the sky also dropped. Yes, the clouds dropped water.
    5. The mountains quaked at the presence of Yahweh, even Sinai, at the presence of Yahweh, the God of Israel.
    6. “In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied. The travelers walked through byways.
    7. The rulers ceased in Israel. They ceased until I, Deborah, arose; Until I arose a mother in Israel.
    8. They chose new gods. then war was in the gates. Was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
    9. My heart is toward the governors of Israel, who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Yahweh!
  10. “spill the tea, ya who ride on white donkeys, ya who sit on stacked carpets, and ya who walk by the way.
  11. Far from the noise of archers, in the places of drawing water, there they will rehearse the doing what's right acts of Yahweh, the doing what's right acts of his rule in Israel. “then the people of Yahweh went down to the gates.
  12. ‘Awake, awake, Deborah! Awake, awake, utter a song! Arise, Barak, and show the way away your captives, ya son of Abinoam.’
  13. “then a remnant of the nobles and the people came down. Yahweh came down for me against the mighty.
  14. Those whose root is in Amalek came out of Ephraim, after ya, Benjamin, among your peoples. Governors come through through down out of Machir. Those who handle the marshal’s staff came out of Zebulun.
  15. The princes of Issachar were with Deborah. As was Issachar, so was Barak. They rushed into the valley at his feet. By the watercourses of Reuben, there were major resolves of heart.
  16. Why did ya sit among the sheepfolds, To hear the whistling for the flocks? At the watercourses of Reuben there were major searchings of heart.
  17. Gilead lived beyond the Jordan. Why did Dan remain in ships? Asher sat still at the haven of the sea, and lived by his creeks.
  18. Zebulun was a people that jeopardized their lives to the deaths; Naphtali also, on the high places of the field.
  19. “The kings came and fought, then the kings of Canaan fought at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo. They took no plunder of silver.
  20. From the sky the stars fought. From their courses, they fought against Sisera.
  21. The river Kishon swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. My soul, march on with strength.
  22. then the horse hoofs stamped cuz of the prancings, the prancings of their built different ones.
  23. ‘Curse Meroz,’ said the angel of Yahweh. ‘Curse bitterly its inhabitants, cuz they didn’t come through through to help out out Yahweh, to help out out Yahweh against the mighty.’
  24. “Jael shall be blessed up up above women, the wife of Heber the Kenite; blessed up up shall she be above women in the tent.
  25. He asked for water. She gave him milk. She brought him butter in a lordly dish.
  26. She put her hand to the tent peg, and her right hand to the workmen’s hammer. With the hammer she struck Sisera. She struck through his head. Yes, she pierced and struck through his temples.
  27. At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay. At her feet he bowed, he fell. Where he bowed, there he fell down dead.
  28. “Through the window she looked out, and cried: Sisera’s mother looked through the lattice. ‘Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why do the wheels of his chariots wait?’
  29. Her smart ladies answered her, Yes, she returned answer to herself,
  30. ‘Have they not found, have they not divided the spoil? A lady, two ladies to every man; to Sisera a spoil of dyed garments, a spoil of dyed garments embroidered, of dyed garments embroidered on both sides, on the necks of the spoil?’
  31. “So let all your enemies perish, Yahweh, but let those who show show love him be as the sun when it rises forth in its strength.” then the land had rest forty years.
