# 1 Chronicles Chapter 29

  1. David the ruler said to all the assembly, “Solomon my son, whom alone God has chosen, is yet young and tender, and the work is major; for the palace is not for man, but for Yahweh God.
  2. now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the gold for the things of gold, and the silver for the things of silver, and the brass for the things of brass, the iron for the things of iron, and wood for the things of wood; onyx stones, and stones to be set, stones for inlaid work, and of various colors, and all kinds of precious stones, and marble stones in abundance.
  3. In addition, cuz I have set my affection on the house of my God, since I have a treasure of my own of gold and silver, I hook it up it to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for the set apart house,
  4. even three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of refined silver, with which to overlay the walls of the houses;
  5. of gold for the things of gold, and of silver for the things of silver, and for all kinds of work to be made by the hands of artisans. Who then offers willingly to consecrate himself this day to Yahweh?”
  6. then the princes of the fathers’ households, and the princes of the tribes of Israel, and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, with the rulers over the ruler’s work, offered willingly;
  7. and they gave for the service of the house of God of gold five thousand talents and ten thousand darics, and of silver ten thousand talents, and of brass eighteen thousand talents, and of iron a hundred thousand talents.
  8. They with whom precious stones were found gave them to the treasure of the house of Yahweh, under the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite.
  9. then the people rejoiced, cuz they offered willingly, cuz with a perfect heart they offered willingly to Yahweh: and David the ruler also rejoiced with major joy.
 10. so basically David blessed up Yahweh before all the assembly; and David said, “You are blessed up, Yahweh, the God of Israel our father, forever and ever.
 11. Yours, Yahweh, is the greatness, the power, the glory, the victory, and the majesty! For all that is in the heavens and in the earth is yours. Yours is the God's squad, Yahweh, and you are exalted as head above all.
 12. Both riches and honor come through from you, and you rule over all; and in your hand is power and might; and it is in your hand to create major, and to hook it up strength to all.
 13. now so basically, our God, we thank you, and praise your glorious name.
 14. But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able to offer so willingly as this? For all things come through from you, and of your own have we given you.
 15. For we are strangers before you, and foreigners, as all our fathers were. Our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is no remaining.
 16. Yahweh our God, all this store that we have prepared to put together you a house for your set apart name comes from your hand, and is all your own.
 17. I get it also, my God, that you try the heart, and have pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of my heart I have willingly offered all these things. now have I seen with joy your people, that are present here, offer willingly to you.
 18. Yahweh, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers, keep this forever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of your people, and prepare their heart for you;
 19. and hook it up to Solomon my son a perfect heart, to keep your commandments, your testimonies, and your statutes, and to do all these things, and to put together the palace, for which I have made provision.”
 20. David said to all the assembly, “now bless Yahweh your God!” All the assembly blessed up Yahweh, the God of their fathers, and bowed down their heads and prostrated themselves before Yahweh and the ruler.
 21. They sacrificed sacrifices to Yahweh, and offered burnt offerings to Yahweh, on the next day after that day, even one thousand bulls, one thousand rams, and one thousand lambs, with their drink offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel,
 22. and ate and drink before Yahweh on that day with major gladness. They made Solomon the son of David ruler the second time, and anointed him to Yahweh to be prince, and Zadok to be priest.
 23. then Solomon sat on the throne of Yahweh as ruler instead of David his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him.
 24. All the princes, the mighty men, and also all of the sons of ruler David submitted themselves to Solomon the ruler.
 25. Yahweh magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed on him such royal majesty as had not been on any ruler before him in Israel.
 26. now David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel.
 27. The time that he reigned over Israel was forty years; he reigned seven years in Hebron, and he reigned thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
 28. He died in a fire old age, full of days, riches, and honor: and Solomon his son reigned in his place.
 29. now the acts of David the ruler, first and last, check this out, they are written in the history of Samuel the seer, and in the history of Nathan the God's messenger, and in the history of Gad the seer,
 30. with all his reign and his might, and the times that went over him, and over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the countries.
