# 1 Chronicles Chapter 17

  1. It happened, when David lived in his house, that David said to Nathan the God's messenger, “check this out,, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh is under curtains.”
  2. Nathan said to David, “Do all that is in your heart; for God is with ya.”
  3. It happened the same night, that the word of God came to Nathan, saying,
  4. “slide and tell David my helper, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “ya won't put together me a house to dwell in;
  5. for I have not lived in a house since the day that I brought up Israel, to this day, but have gone from tent to tent, and from one tent to another.
  6. In all places in which I have walked with all Israel, did I spill the tea a word with any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people, saying, ‘Why have ya not built me a house of cedar?’”’
  7. “now so basically, ya shall tell my helper David, ‘Thus says Yahweh of Armies, “I took ya from the sheep pen, from following the sheep, that ya should be prince over my people Israel.
  8. I have been with ya wherever ya have gone, and have cut off all your enemies from before ya. I will create ya a name, like the name of the major ones who are in the earth.
  9. I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at the first,
 10. and from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will subdue all your enemies. Moreover I tell ya that Yahweh will put together ya a house.
 11. It shall happen, when your days are fulfilled that ya must slide to be with your fathers, that I will set up your seed after ya, who shall be of your sons; and I will establish his God's squad.
 12. He shall put together me a house, and I will establish his throne forever.
 13. I will be his father, and he shall be my son. I won't grab my loving kindness away from him, as I took it from him that was before ya;
 14. but I will settle him in my house and in my God's squad forever. His throne shall be established forever.”’”
 15. According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David.
 16. then David the ruler went in, and sat before Yahweh; and he said, “Who am I, Yahweh God, and what is my house, that ya have brought me thus far?
 17. This was a tiny thing in your eyes, God; but ya have spoken of your helper’s house for a major while to come through, and have respected me according to the estate of a man of high degree, Yahweh God.
 18. What can David say yet more to ya concerning the honor which is done to your helper? For ya get it your helper.
 19. Yahweh, for your helper’s sake, and according to your own heart, ya have worked all this greatness, to create known all these major things.
 20. Yahweh, there is none like ya, neither is there any God besides ya, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
 21. What one nation in the earth is like your people Israel, whom God went to redeem to himself for a people, to create ya a name by major and awesome things, in driving out nations from before your people, whom ya redeem out of Egypt?
 22. For your people Israel ya made your own people forever; and ya, Yahweh, became their God.
 23. now, Yahweh, let the word that ya have spoken concerning your helper, and concerning his house, be established forever, and do as ya have spoken.
 24. Let your name be established and magnified forever, saying, ‘Yahweh of Armies is the God of Israel, even a God to Israel. The house of David your helper is established before ya.’
 25. For ya, my God, have revealed to your helper that ya will put together him a house. so basically your helper has found courage to pray before ya.
 26. now, Yahweh, ya are God, and have promised this fire thing to your helper.
 27. now it has pleased ya to bless the house of your helper, that it may continue forever before ya; for ya, Yahweh, have blessed up, and it is blessed up forever.”
