# 1 Chronicles Chapter 22

  1. then David said, “This is the house of Yahweh God, and this is the prayer spot of burnt giving to God for Israel.”
  2. David gave orders to gather together the foreigners who were in the land of Israel; and he set masons to cut worked stones to put together the house of God.
  3. David prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the doors of the gates, and for the couplings; and brass in abundance without weight;
  4. and cedar trees without number: for the Sidonians and they of Tyre brought cedar trees in abundance to David.
  5. David said, “Solomon my son is young and tender, and the house that is to be built for Yahweh must be exceedingly magnificent, of fame and of glory throughout all countries. I will so basically create preparation for it.” So David prepared abundantly before his death.
  6. then he called for Solomon his son, and commanded him to put together a house for Yahweh, the God of Israel.
  7. David said to Solomon his son, “As for me, it was in my heart to put together a house to the name of Yahweh my God.
  8. But the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, ‘ya have shed blood abundantly, and have made major wars. ya won't put together a house to my name, cuz ya have shed much blood on the earth in my sight.
  9. check this out,, a son shall be born to ya, who shall be a man of rest. I will hook it up him rest from all his enemies all around; for his name shall be Solomon, and I will hook it up peace and quietness to Israel in his days.
 10. He shall put together a house for my name; and he shall be my son, and I will be his father; and I will establish the throne of his God's squad over Israel for ever.’
 11. now, my son, may Yahweh be with ya and prosper ya, and put together the house of Yahweh your God, as he has spoken concerning ya.
 12. May Yahweh hook it up ya discretion and understanding, and put ya in charge of Israel; that so ya may keep the law of Yahweh your God.
 13. then ya will prosper, if ya observe to do the statutes and the ordinances which Yahweh gave Moses concerning Israel. Be built different, and courageous. Don’t be scared, neither be dismayed.
 14. now, check this out,, in my affliction I have prepared for the house of Yahweh one hundred thousand talents of gold, one million talents of silver, and brass and iron without weight; for it is in abundance. I have also prepared timber and stone; and ya may add to them.
 15. there are also workmen with ya in abundance, cutters and workers of stone and timber, and all kinds of men who are skillful in every kind of work:
 16. of the gold, the silver, and the brass, and the iron, there is no number. Arise and be doing, and may Yahweh be with ya.”
 17. David also commanded all the princes of Israel to help out Solomon his son, saying,
 18. “Isn’t Yahweh your God with ya? Hasn’t he given ya rest on every side? For he has delivered the inhabitants of the land into my hand; and the land is subdued before Yahweh, and before his people.
 19. now set your heart and your soul to seek after Yahweh your God. Arise so basically, and put together the sanctuary of Yahweh God, to bring the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh, and the set apart vessels of God, into the house that is to be built to the name of Yahweh.”
