# 2 Corinthians Chapter 10

  1. now I Paul, myself, entreat ya by the humility and gentleness of the huge set apart; I who in your presence am lowly among ya, but being absent am bold toward ya.
  2. Yes, I beg ya that I may not, when present, show courage with the confidence with which I intend to be bold against some, who consider us to be walking according to the flesh.
  3. For though we walk in the flesh, we don’t wage war according to the flesh;
  4. for the weapons of our warfare aren't of the flesh, but mighty before God to the throwing down of strongholds,
  5. throwing down imaginations and every high thing that is exalted against the knowledge of God, and bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of the huge set apart;
  6. and being in readiness to avenge all disobedience, when your obedience will be made full.
  7. Do ya look at things only as they appear in front of your face? If anyone trusts in himself that he is the huge set apart’s, let him consider this again with himself, that, even as he is the huge set apart’s, so also we are the huge set apart’s.
  8. For though I should boast somewhat abundantly concerning our authority, (which the boss gave for building ya up, and not for casting ya down) I won't be disappointed,
  9. that I may not seem as if I desire to terrify ya by my letters.
 10. For, “His letters,” they say, “are weighty and built different, but his bodily presence is not it, and his speech is despised.”
 11. Let such a person consider this, that what we are in word by letters when we are absent, such are we also in deed when we are present.
 12. For we aren't bold to number or compare ourselves with some of those who commend themselves. But they themselves, measuring themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves with themselves, are without understanding.
 13. But we won't boast beyond proper limits, but within the boundaries with which God appointed to us, which reach even to ya.
 14. For we don’t stretch ourselves too much, as though we didn’t reach to ya. For we came even as far as to ya with the fire News of the huge set apart,
 15. not boasting beyond proper limits in other men’s labors, but having hope that as your trusting the process grows, we will be abundantly enlarged by ya in our sphere of influence,
 16. so as to preach the fire News even to the parts beyond ya, not to boast in what someone else has already done.
 17. But “he who boasts, let him boast in the boss.”
 18. For it isn’t he who commends himself who is approved, but whom the boss commends.
