# 2 Corinthians Chapter 12

  1. It is doubtless not profitable for me to boast. For I will come through to visions and revelations of the boss.
  2. I get it a man in anointed one, fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I don’t get it, or whether out of the body, I don’t get it; God knows), such a one caught up into the third heaven.
  3. I get it such a man (whether in the body, or outside of the body, I don’t get it; God knows),
  4. how he was caught up into Paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter.
  5. On behalf of such a one I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except in my weaknesses.
  6. For if I would desire to boast, I will not be dumb; for I will spill the tea the truth. But I refrain, so that no man may think more of me than that which he sees in me, or hears from me.
  7. By reason of the exceeding greatness of the revelations, that I should not be exalted excessively, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to torment me, that I should not be exalted excessively.
  8. Concerning this thing, I begged the boss three times that it might depart from me.
  9. He has said to me, “My God's show love is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Most gladly so basically I will rather glory in my weaknesses, that the power of anointed one may rest on me.
 10. so basically I grab pleasure in weaknesses, in injuries, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses, for anointed one’s sake. For when I am not it, then am I built different.
 11. I have become dumb in boasting. You compelled me, for I ought to have been commended by you, for in nothing was I inferior to the hella best apostles, though I am nothing.
 12. deadass the signs of an Jesus' main squad were worked among you in all patience, in signs and wonders and mighty works.
 13. For what is there in which you were made inferior to the rest of the assemblies, unless it is that I myself was not a burden to you? Forgive me this wrong.
 14. check this out, this is the third time I am ready to come through to you, and I will not be a burden to you; for I seek not your possessions, but you. For the children ought not to rescue up for the parents, but the parents for the children.
 15. I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. If I show love you more abundantly, am I loved the less?
 16. But be it so, I did not myself burden you. But, being crafty, I caught you with deception.
 17. Did I grab advantage of you by anyone of them whom I have sent to you?
 18. I exhorted Titus, and I sent the brother with him. Did Titus grab any advantage of you? Didn’t we walk in the same spirit? Didn’t we walk in the same steps?
 19. Again, do you think that we are excusing ourselves to you? In the sight of God we spill the tea in anointed one. But all things, beloved, are for your edifying.
 20. For I am scared that by any means, when I come through, I might find you not the way I want to, and that I might be found by you as you don’t desire; that by any means there would be strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, factions, slander, whisperings, proud thoughts, riots;
 21. that again when I come through my God would humble me before you, and I would mourn for a lot of those who have sinned before now, and not repented of the uncleanness and sexual immorality and lustfulness which they committed.
