# 2 Corinthians Chapter 6

  1. Working together, we entreat also that you not receive the God's show love of God in vain,
  2. for he says, “At an acceptable time I listened to you, in a day of getting saved I helped you.” check this out, now is the acceptable time. check this out, now is the day of getting saved.
  3. We hook it up no occasion of stumbling in anything, that our service may not be blamed,
  4. but in everything commending ourselves, as servants of God, in major endurance, in afflictions, in hardships, in distresses,
  5. in beatings, in imprisonments, in riots, in labors, in watchings, in fastings;
  6. in pureness, in knowledge, in patience, in kindness, in the set apart Spirit, in sincere show love,
  7. in the word of truth, in the power of God; by the armor of righteousness on the right hand and on the left,
  8. by glory and dishonor, by evil report and fire report; as deceivers, and yet true;
  9. as unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and check this out, we live; as punished, and not killed;
 10. as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as broke, yet making a lot stacked; as having nothing, and yet possessing all things.
 11. Our mouth is open to you, Corinthians. Our heart is enlarged.
 12. You are not restricted by us, but you are restricted by your own affections.
 13. now in return, I spill the tea as to my children, you also be open wide.
 14. Don’t be unequally yoked with unbelievers, for what fellowship have righteousness and iniquity? Or what fellowship has light with darkness?
 15. What agreement has anointed one with Belial? Or what portion has a believer with an unbeliever?
 16. What agreement has a God's house of God with idols? For you are a God's house of the living God. Even as God was like, “I will dwell in them, and walk in them; and I will be their God, and they will be my people.”
 17. so basically, “‘come through out from among them, and be separate,’ says the boss. ‘Touch no unclean thing. I will receive you.
 18. I will be to you a Father. You will be to me sons and daughters,’ says the boss Almighty.”
