# 2 Corinthians Chapter 8

  1. Moreover, brothers, we create known to ya the God's show love of God which has been given in the assemblies of Macedonia;
  2. how that in much proof of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded to the riches of their liberality.
  3. For according to their power, I testify, yes and beyond their power, they gave of their own accord,
  4. begging us with much entreaty to receive this God's show love and the fellowship in the service to the set apart fam.
  5. This was not as we had hoped, but first they gave their own selves to the boss, and to us through the will of God.
  6. So we urged Titus, that as he made a beginning before, so he would also complete in ya this God's show love.
  7. But as ya abound in everything, in trusting the process, utterance, knowledge, all earnestness, and in your show love to us, check it out that ya also abound in this God's show love.
  8. I spill the tea not by way of commandment, but as proving through the earnestness of others the sincerity also of your show love.
  9. For ya get it the God's show love of our boss Jesus the huge set apart, that, though he was stacked, yet for your sakes he became broke, that ya through his poverty might become stacked.
 10. I hook it up a judgment in this: for this is expedient for ya, who were the first to start a year ago, not only to do, but also to be willing.
 11. But now complete the doing also, that as there was the readiness to be willing, so there may be the completion also out of your ability.
 12. For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what ya have, not according to what ya don’t have.
 13. For this isn't that others may be eased and ya distressed,
 14. but for equality. Your abundance at this present time supplies their lack, that their abundance also may become a supply for your lack; that there may be equality.
 15. As it is written, “He who gathered much had nothing left over, and he who gathered little had no lack.”
 16. But thanks be to God, who puts the same earnest care for ya into the heart of Titus.
 17. For he facts accepted our exhortation, but being himself hella earnest, he went out to ya of his own accord.
 18. We have sent together with him the fam bro whose praise in the fire News is known through all the assemblies.
 19. Not only so, but who was also appointed by the assemblies to travel with us in this God's show love, which is served by us to the glory of the boss himself, and to show our readiness.
 20. We are avoiding this, that any man should blame us concerning this abundance which is administered by us.
 21. Having regard for honorable things, not only in the sight of the boss, but also in the sight of men.
 22. We have sent with them our fam bro, whom we have a lot times proved earnest in a lot things, but now much more earnest, by reason of the major confidence which he has in ya.
 23. As for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker for ya. As for our brothers, they are the Jesus broskies of the assemblies, the glory of the huge set apart.
 24. so basically show the proof of your show love to them in front of the assemblies, and of our boasting on your behalf.
