# Leviticus Chapter 1

    1. Yahweh called to Moses, and spoke to him out of the Tent of Meeting, saying,
    2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When anyone of ya offers an giving to God to Yahweh, ya shall offer your giving to God of the livestock, from the herd and from the flock.
    3. “‘If his giving to God is a burnt giving to God from the herd, he shall offer a male without blemish. He shall offer it at the door of the Tent of Meeting, that he may be accepted before Yahweh.
    4. He shall lay his hand on the head of the burnt giving to God, and it shall be accepted for him to create atonement for him.
    5. He shall kill the bull before Yahweh. Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall present the blood and sprinkle the blood around on the talking to God spot that is at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
    6. He shall flay the burnt giving to God, and cut it into pieces.
    7. The sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire on the talking to God spot, and lay wood in order on the fire;
    8. and Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall lay the pieces, the head, and the fat in order on the wood that is on the fire which is on the talking to God spot;
    9. but its innards and its legs he shall wash with water. The priest shall burn the whole on the talking to God spot, for a burnt giving to God, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
  10. “‘If his giving to God is from the flock, from the sheep, or from the goats, for a burnt giving to God, he shall offer a male without blemish.
  11. He shall kill it on the north side of the talking to God spot before Yahweh. Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall sprinkle its blood around on the talking to God spot.
  12. He shall cut it into its pieces, with its head and its fat. The priest shall lay them in order on the wood that is on the fire which is on the talking to God spot,
  13. but the innards and the legs he shall wash with water. The priest shall offer the whole, and burn it on the talking to God spot. It is a burnt giving to God, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
  14. “‘If his giving to God to Yahweh is a burnt giving to God of birds, then he shall offer his giving to God of turtledoves, or of young pigeons.
  15. The priest shall bring it to the talking to God spot, and wring off its head, and burn it on the talking to God spot; and its blood shall be drained out on the side of the talking to God spot;
  16. and he shall grab away its crop with its filth, and cast it beside the talking to God spot on the east part, in the place of the ashes.
  17. He shall tear it by its wings, but won't divide it apart. The priest shall burn it on the talking to God spot, on the wood that is on the fire. It is a burnt giving to God, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
