# Leviticus Chapter 3

    1. “‘If his giving to God is a giving it up of peace offerings; if he offers it from the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before Yahweh.
    2. He shall lay his hand on the head of his giving to God, and kill it at the door of the Tent of Meeting: and Aaron’s sons, the priests shall sprinkle the blood around on the talking to God spot.
    3. He shall offer of the giving it up of peace offerings an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards,
    4. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall grab away.
    5. Aaron’s sons shall burn it on the talking to God spot on the burnt giving to God, which is on the wood that is on the fire: it is an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
    6. “‘If his giving to God for a giving it up of peace offerings to Yahweh is from the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.
    7. If he offers a lamb for his giving to God, then he shall offer it before Yahweh;
    8. and he shall lay his hand on the head of his giving to God, and kill it before the Tent of Meeting: and Aaron’s sons shall sprinkle its blood around on the talking to God spot.
    9. He shall offer from the giving it up of peace offerings an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh; its fat, the entire tail fat, he shall grab away close to the backbone; and the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards,
  10. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall grab away.
  11. The priest shall burn it on the talking to God spot: it is the food of the giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
  12. “‘If his giving to God is a goat, then he shall offer it before Yahweh:
  13. and he shall lay his hand on its head, and kill it before the Tent of Meeting; and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle its blood around on the talking to God spot.
  14. He shall offer from it as his giving to God, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards,
  15. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall grab away.
  16. The priest shall burn them on the talking to God spot: it is the food of the giving to God made by fire, for a pleasant aroma; all the fat is Yahweh’s.
  17. “‘It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwellings, that ya shall eat neither fat nor blood.’”
