# Leviticus Chapter 4

    1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
    2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, saying, ‘If anyone sins unintentionally, in any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and does any one of them:
    3. if the anointed priest sins so as to bring guilt on the people, then let him offer for his messing up, which he has sinned, a young bull without blemish to Yahweh for a messing up giving to God.
    4. He shall bring the bull to the door of the Tent of Meeting before Yahweh; and he shall lay his hand on the head of the bull, and kill the bull before Yahweh.
    5. The anointed priest shall grab some of the blood of the bull, and bring it to the Tent of Meeting.
    6. The priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle some of the blood seven times before Yahweh, before the veil of the sanctuary.
    7. The priest shall put some of the blood on the horns of the talking to God spot of sweet incense before Yahweh, which is in the Tent of Meeting; and he shall pour out all of rest of the blood of the bull at the base of the talking to God spot of burnt giving to God, which is at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
    8. He shall grab all the fat of the bull of the messing up giving to God off of it; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards,
    9. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall grab away,
  10. as it is taken off of the bull of the giving it up of peace offerings. The priest shall burn them on the talking to God spot of burnt giving to God.
  11. The bull’s skin, all its flesh, with its head, and with its legs, its innards, and its dung,
  12. even the whole bull shall he carry forth outside the camp to a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, and burn it on wood with fire. Where the ashes are poured out it shall be burned.
  13. “‘If the whole congregation of Israel sins, and the thing is hidden from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and are guilty;
  14. when the messing up in which they have sinned is known, then the assembly shall offer a young bull for a messing up giving to God, and bring it before the Tent of Meeting.
  15. The elders of the congregation shall lay their hands on the head of the bull before Yahweh; and the bull shall be killed before Yahweh.
  16. The anointed priest shall bring of the blood of the bull to the Tent of Meeting:
  17. and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle it seven times before Yahweh, before the veil.
  18. He shall put some of the blood on the horns of the talking to God spot which is before Yahweh, that is in the Tent of Meeting; and the rest of the blood he shall pour out at the base of the talking to God spot of burnt giving to God, which is at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
  19. All its fat he shall grab from it, and burn it on the talking to God spot.
  20. Thus shall he do with the bull; as he did with the bull of the messing up giving to God, so shall he do with this; and the priest shall create atonement for them, and they shall be forgiven.
  21. He shall carry forth the bull outside the camp, and burn it as he burned the first bull. It is the messing up giving to God for the assembly.
  22. “‘When a ruler sins, and unwittingly does any one of all the things which Yahweh his God has commanded not to be done, and is guilty;
  23. if his messing up, in which he has sinned, is made known to him, he shall bring as his giving to God a goat, a male without blemish.
  24. He shall lay his hand on the head of the goat, and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt giving to God before Yahweh. It is a messing up giving to God.
  25. The priest shall grab some of the blood of the messing up giving to God with his finger, and put it on the horns of the talking to God spot of burnt giving to God. He shall pour out the rest of its blood at the base of the talking to God spot of burnt giving to God.
  26. All its fat he shall burn on the talking to God spot, like the fat of the giving it up of peace offerings; and the priest shall create atonement for him concerning his messing up, and he will be forgiven.
  27. “‘If anyone of the common people sins unwittingly, in doing any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and is guilty;
  28. if his messing up, which he has sinned, is made known to him, then he shall bring for his giving to God a goat, a female without blemish, for his messing up which he has sinned.
  29. He shall lay his hand on the head of the messing up giving to God, and kill the messing up giving to God in the place of burnt giving to God.
  30. The priest shall grab some of its blood with his finger, and put it on the horns of the talking to God spot of burnt giving to God; and the rest of its blood he shall pour out at the base of the talking to God spot.
  31. All its fat he shall grab away, like the fat is taken away from off of the giving it up of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn it on the talking to God spot for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh; and the priest shall create atonement for him, and he will be forgiven.
  32. “‘If he brings a lamb as his giving to God for a messing up giving to God, he shall bring a female without blemish.
  33. He shall lay his hand on the head of the messing up giving to God, and kill it for a messing up giving to God in the place where they kill the burnt giving to God.
  34. The priest shall grab some of the blood of the messing up giving to God with his finger, and put it on the horns of the talking to God spot of burnt giving to God; and all the rest of its blood he shall pour out at the base of the talking to God spot.
  35. All its fat he shall grab away, like the fat of the lamb is taken away from the giving it up of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn them on the talking to God spot, on the offerings of Yahweh made by fire; and the priest shall create atonement for him concerning his messing up that he has sinned, and he will be forgiven.
