# Leviticus Chapter 18

  1. Yahweh said to Moses,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘I am Yahweh your God.
  3. ya won't do as they do in the land of Egypt, where ya lived: and ya won't do as they do in the land of Canaan, where I am bringing ya; neither shall ya walk in their statutes.
  4. ya shall do my ordinances, and ya shall keep my statutes, and walk in them: I am Yahweh your God.
  5. ya shall so basically keep my statutes and my ordinances; which if a man does, he shall live in them: I am Yahweh.
  6. “‘None of ya shall approach anyone who are his close relatives, to uncover their nakedness: I am Yahweh.
  7. “‘ya won't uncover the nakedness of your father, nor the nakedness of your mother: she is your mother. ya won't uncover her nakedness.
  8. “‘ya won't uncover the nakedness of your father’s wife: it is your father’s nakedness.
  9. “‘ya won't uncover the nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father, or the daughter of your mother, whether born at home, or born abroad.
 10. “‘ya won't uncover the nakedness of your son’s daughter, or of your daughter’s daughter, even their nakedness: for theirs is your own nakedness.
 11. “‘ya won't uncover the nakedness of your father’s wife’s daughter, conceived by your father, since she is your sister.
 12. “‘ya won't uncover the nakedness of your father’s sister: she is your father’s near kinswoman.
 13. “‘ya won't uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister: for she is your mother’s near kinswoman.
 14. “‘ya won't uncover the nakedness of your father’s fam bro, ya won't approach his wife: she is your aunt.
 15. “‘ya won't uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law: she is your son’s wife. ya won't uncover her nakedness.
 16. “‘ya won't uncover the nakedness of your fam bro’s wife: it is your fam bro’s nakedness.
 17. “‘ya won't uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter. ya won't grab her son’s daughter, or her daughter’s daughter, to uncover her nakedness; they are near kinswomen: it is wickedness.
 18. “‘ya won't grab a wife to her sister, to be a rival, to uncover her nakedness, while her sister is yet alive.
 19. “‘ya won't approach a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is impure by her uncleanness.
 20. “‘ya won't lie carnally with your neighbor’s wife, and defile yourself with her.
 21. “‘ya won't hook it up any of your children to giving it up to Molech; neither shall ya profane the name of your God: I am Yahweh.
 22. “‘ya won't lie with a man, as with a woman. That is detestable.
 23. “‘ya won't lie with any animal to defile yourself with it; neither shall any woman hook it up herself to an animal, to lie down with it: it is a perversion.
 24. “‘Don’t defile yourselves in any of these things: for in all these the nations which I am casting out before ya were defiled.
 25. The land was defiled: so basically I punished its iniquity, and the land vomited out her inhabitants.
 26. ya so basically shall keep my statutes and my ordinances, and won't do any of these abominations; neither the native-born, nor the stranger who lives as a foreigner among ya;
 27. (for all these abominations have the men of the land done, that were before ya, and the land became defiled);
 28. that the land not vomit ya out also, when ya defile it, as it vomited out the nation that was before ya.
 29. “‘For whoever shall do any of these abominations, even the souls that do them shall be cut off from among their people.
 30. so basically ya shall keep my requirements, that ya don't practice any of these abominable customs, which were practiced before ya, and that ya don't defile yourselves with them: I am Yahweh your God.’”
