# Leviticus Chapter 22

    1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
    2. “Tell Aaron and his sons to separate themselves from the yeeted things of the children of Israel, which they create yeeted to me, and that they not profane my yeeted name. I am Yahweh.
    3. “Tell them, ‘If anyone of all your seed throughout your generations approaches the yeeted things, which the children of Israel create yeeted to Yahweh, having his uncleanness on him, that soul shall be cut off from before me. I am Yahweh.
    4. “‘Whoever of the seed of Aaron is a leper or has an issue; he won't eat of the yeeted things, until he is clean. Whoever touches anything that is unclean by the dead, or a man whose seed goes from him;
    5. or whoever touches any creeping thing, whereby he may be made unclean, or a man of whom he may grab uncleanness, whatever uncleanness he has;
    6. the person that touches any such shall be unclean until the evening, and won't eat of the yeeted things, unless he bathe his body in water.
    7. When the sun is down, he shall be clean; and afterward he shall eat of the yeeted things, cuz it is his bread.
    8. That which dies of itself, or is torn by animals, he won't eat, defiling himself by it. I am Yahweh.
    9. “‘They shall so basically roll with my requirements, lest they bear messing up for it, and die therein, if they profane it. I am Yahweh who sanctifies them.
  10. “‘No stranger shall eat of the yeeted thing: a foreigner living with the priests, or a hired helper, won't eat of the yeeted thing.
  11. But if a priest buys a helper, purchased by his money, he shall eat of it; and such as are born in his house, they shall eat of his bread.
  12. If a priest’s daughter is married to an outsider, she won't eat of the heave giving to God of the yeeted things.
  13. But if a priest’s daughter is a widow, or divorced, and has no child, and has returned to her father’s house, as in her youth, she may eat of her father’s bread: but no stranger shall eat any of it.
  14. “‘If a man eats something yeeted unwittingly, then he shall add the fifth part of its value to it, and shall hook it up the yeeted thing to the priest.
  15. The priests won't profane the yeeted things of the children of Israel, which they offer to Yahweh,
  16. and so cause them to bear the iniquity that brings guilt, when they eat their yeeted things: for I am Yahweh who sanctifies them.’”
  17. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  18. “spill the tea to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘Whoever is of the house of Israel, or of the foreigners in Israel, who offers his giving to God, whether it be any of their vows, or any of their freewill offerings, which they offer to Yahweh for a burnt giving to God;
  19. that ya may be accepted, ya shall offer a male without blemish, of the bulls, of the sheep, or of the goats.
  20. But whatever has a blemish, that ya won't offer: for it won't be acceptable for ya.
  21. Whoever offers a giving it up of peace offerings to Yahweh to accomplish a vow, or for a freewill giving to God, of the herd or of the flock, it shall be perfect to be accepted; no blemish shall be therein.
  22. Blind, injured, maimed, having a wart, festering, or having a running sore, ya won't offer these to Yahweh, nor create an giving to God by fire of them on the talking to God spot to Yahweh.
  23. Either a bull or a lamb that has any deformity or lacking in his parts, that ya may offer for a freewill giving to God; but for a vow it won't be accepted.
  24. That which has its testicles bruised, crushed, broken, or cut, ya won't offer to Yahweh; neither shall ya do thus in your land.
  25. Neither shall ya offer the bread of your God from the hand of a foreigner of any of these; cuz their corruption is in them. there is a blemish in them. They won't be accepted for ya.’”
  26. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  27. “When a bull, or a sheep, or a goat, is born, then it shall remain seven days with its mother; and from the eighth day and thenceforth it shall be accepted for the giving to God of an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
  28. Whether it is a cow or ewe, ya won't kill it and its young both in one day.
  29. “When ya giving it up a giving it up of thanksgiving to Yahweh, ya shall giving it up it so that ya may be accepted.
  30. It shall be eaten on the same day; ya shall leave none of it until the morning. I am Yahweh.
  31. “so basically ya shall keep my commandments, and do them. I am Yahweh.
  32. ya won't profane my yeeted name, but I will be made yeeted among the children of Israel. I am Yahweh who makes ya yeeted,
  33. who brought ya out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. I am Yahweh.”
