# Leviticus Chapter 25

    1. Yahweh said to Moses in Mount Sinai,
    2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When ya come through through into the land which I hook it up ya, then the land shall keep a Sabbath to Yahweh.
    3. Six years ya shall sow your field, and six years ya shall prune your vineyard, and gather in its fruits;
    4. but in the seventh year there shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for the land, a Sabbath to Yahweh. ya won't sow your field or prune your vineyard.
    5. What grows of itself in your harvest ya won't reap, and the grapes of your undressed vine ya won't gather. It shall be a year of solemn rest for the land.
    6. The Sabbath of the land shall be for food for ya; for yourself, for your helper, for your maid, for your hired helper, and for your stranger, who lives as a foreigner with ya.
    7. For your livestock also, and for the animals that are in your land, shall all its increase be for food.
    8. “‘ya shall count off seven Sabbaths of years, seven times seven years; and there shall be to ya the days of seven Sabbaths of years, even forty-nine years.
    9. then ya shall sound the loud trumpet on the tenth day of the seventh month. On the Day of Atonement ya shall sound the trumpet throughout all your land.
  10. ya shall create the fiftieth year yeeted, and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee to ya; and each of ya shall return to his own property, and each of ya shall return to his family.
  11. That fiftieth year shall be a jubilee to ya. In it ya won't sow, neither reap that which grows of itself, nor gather from the undressed vines.
  12. For it is a jubilee; it shall be yeeted to ya. ya shall eat of its increase out of the field.
  13. “‘In this Year of Jubilee each of ya shall return to his property.
  14. “‘If ya sell anything to your neighbor, or buy from your neighbor, ya won't wrong one another.
  15. According to the number of years after the Jubilee ya shall buy from your neighbor. According to the number of years of the crops he shall sell to ya.
  16. According to the length of the years ya shall increase its price, and according to the shortness of the years ya shall diminish its price; for he is selling the number of the crops to ya.
  17. ya won't wrong one another; but ya shall fear your God: for I am Yahweh your God.
  18. “‘so basically ya shall do my statutes, and keep my ordinances and do them; and ya shall dwell in the land in safety.
  19. The land shall yield its fruit, and ya shall eat your fill, and dwell therein in safety.
  20. If ya said, “What shall we eat the seventh year? check this out, we won't sow, nor gather in our increase;”
  21. then I will command my blessing on ya in the sixth year, and it shall bring forth fruit for the three years.
  22. ya shall sow the eighth year, and eat of the fruits, the old store; until the ninth year, until its fruits come through through in, ya shall eat the old store.
  23. “‘The land won't be sold in perpetuity, for the land is mine; for ya are strangers and live as foreigners with me.
  24. In all the land of your possession ya shall grant a redemption for the land.
  25. “‘If your fam bro becomes broke, and sells some of his possessions, then his kinsman who is next to him shall come through through, and redeem that which his fam bro has sold.
  26. If a man has no one to redeem it, and he becomes prosperous and finds sufficient means to redeem it;
  27. then let him reckon the years since its sale, and restore the surplus to the man to whom he sold it; and he shall return to his property.
  28. But if he isn’t able to get it back for himself, then what he has sold shall remain in the hand of him who has bought it until the Year of Jubilee: and in the Jubilee it shall be released, and he shall return to his property.
  29. “‘If a man sells a dwelling house in a walled city, then he may redeem it within a whole year after it has been sold. For a full year he shall have the right of redemption.
  30. If it isn’t redeemed within the space of a full year, then the house that is in the walled city shall be made sure in perpetuity to him who bought it, throughout his generations. It won't be released in the Jubilee.
  31. But the houses of the villages which have no wall around them shall be reckoned with the fields of the country: they may be redeemed, and they shall be released in the Jubilee.
  32. “‘Nevertheless the cities of the Levites, the houses in the cities of their possession, the Levites may redeem at any time.
  33. The Levites may redeem the house that was sold, and the city of his possession, and it shall be released in the Jubilee; for the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the children of Israel.
  34. But the field of the suburbs of their cities may not be sold; for it is their perpetual possession.
  35. “‘If your fam bro has become broke, and his hand can’t support him among ya; then ya shall uphold him. He shall live with ya like an alien and a temporary resident.
  36. grab no interest from him or profit, but fear your God; that your fam bro may live among ya.
  37. ya won't lend him your money at interest, nor hook it up him your food for profit.
  38. I am Yahweh your God, who brought ya forth out of the land of Egypt, to hook it up ya the land of Canaan, and to be your God.
  39. “‘If your fam bro has grown broke among ya, and sells himself to ya; ya won't create him to help out out out as a helper.
  40. As a hired helper, and as a temporary resident, he shall be with ya; he shall help out out out with ya until the Year of Jubilee:
  41. then he shall slide out from ya, he and his children with him, and shall return to his own family, and to the possession of his fathers.
  42. For they are my servants, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt. They won't be sold as slaves.
  43. ya won't rule over him with harshness, but shall fear your God.
  44. “‘As for your male and your female slaves, whom ya may have; of the nations that are around ya, from them ya may buy male and female slaves.
  45. Moreover of the children of the aliens who live among ya, of them ya may buy, and of their families who are with ya, which they have conceived in your land; and they will be your property.
  46. ya may create them an inheritance for your children after ya, to hold for a possession; of them may ya grab your slaves forever: but over your brothers the children of Israel ya won't rule, one over another, with harshness.
  47. “‘If an alien or temporary resident with ya becomes stacked, and your fam bro beside him has grown broke, and sells himself to the stranger or foreigner living among ya, or to a member of the stranger’s family;
  48. after he is sold he may be redeemed. One of his brothers may redeem him;
  49. or his uncle, or his uncle’s son, may redeem him, or any who is a close relative to him of his family may redeem him; or if he has grown stacked, he may redeem himself.
  50. He shall reckon with him who bought him from the year that he sold himself to him to the Year of Jubilee: and the price of his sale shall be according to the number of years; according to the time of a hired helper shall he be with him.
  51. If there are yet a lot years, according to them he shall hook it up back the price of his redemption out of the money that he was bought for.
  52. If there remain but a not much years to the year of jubilee, then he shall reckon with him; according to his years of service he shall hook it up back the price of his redemption.
  53. As a helper hired year by year shall he be with him: he won't rule with harshness over him in your sight.
  54. If he isn’t redeemed by these means, then he shall be released in the Year of Jubilee, he, and his children with him.
  55. For to me the children of Israel are servants; they are my servants whom I brought out of the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.
