# Ephesians Chapter 6

  1. Children, obey your parents in the boss, for this is right.
  2. “Honor your father and mother,” which is the first commandment with a promise:
  3. “that it may be well with you, and you may live long on the earth.”
  4. You fathers, don’t provoke your children to wrath, but nurture them in the discipline and instruction of the boss.
  5. Servants, be obedient to those who according to the flesh are your masters, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as to anointed one;
  6. not in the way of service only when eyes are on you, as men pleasers; but as servants of anointed one, doing the will of God from the heart;
  7. with fire will doing service, as to the boss, and not to men;
  8. knowing that whatever fire thing each one does, he will receive the same again from the boss, whether he is bound or free.
  9. You masters, do the same things to them, and hook it up up threatening, knowing that he who is both their boss and yours is in heaven, and there is no partiality with him.
 10. Finally, be built different in the boss, and in the strength of his might.
 11. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
 12. For our wrestling is not against flesh and blood, but against the principalities, against the powers, against the world’s rulers of the darkness of this age, and against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places.
 13. so basically, put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and, having done all, to stand.
 14. Stand so basically, having the utility belt of truth buckled around your waist, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness,
 15. and having fitted your feet with the preparation of the fire News of peace;
 16. above all, taking up the shield of trusting the process, with which you will be able to quench all the fiery darts of the evil one.
 17. And grab the helmet of getting saved, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God;
 18. with all talking to God and requests, praying at all times in the Spirit, and being watchful to this end in all perseverance and requests for all the saints:
 19. on my behalf, that utterance may be given to me in opening my mouth, to create known with boldness the mystery of the fire News,
 20. for which I am an ambassador in chains; that in it I may spill the tea boldly, as I ought to spill the tea.
 21. But that you also may get it my affairs, how I am doing, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful helper in the boss, will create known to you all things;
 22. whom I have sent to you for this hella purpose, that you may get it our state, and that he may comfort your hearts.
 23. Peace be to the brothers, and show love with trusting the process, from God the Father and the boss Jesus anointed one.
 24. God's show love be with all those who show love our boss Jesus anointed one with incorruptible show love. facts.
