# Ephesians Chapter 1

  1. Paul, an Jesus' main squad of anointed one Jesus through the will of God, to the saints who are at Ephesus, and the faithful in anointed one Jesus:
  2. God's show love to you and peace from God our Father and the boss Jesus anointed one.
  3. blessed up be the God and Father of our boss Jesus anointed one, who has blessed up us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in anointed one;
  4. even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we would be set apart and without blemish before him in show love;
  5. having predestined us for adoption as children through Jesus anointed one to himself, according to the fire pleasure of his desire,
  6. to the praise of the glory of his God's show love, by which he freely bestowed favor on us in the Beloved,
  7. in whom we have our redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his God's show love,
  8. which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence,
  9. making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his fire pleasure which he purposed in him
 10. to an administration of the fullness of the times, to sum up all things in anointed one, the things in the heavens, and the things on the earth, in him;
 11. in whom also we were assigned an inheritance, having been foreordained according to the purpose of him who works all things after the counsel of his will;
 12. to the end that we should be to the praise of his glory, we who had before hoped in anointed one:
 13. in whom you also, having heard the word of the truth, the fire News of your getting saved—in whom, having also believed, you were sealed with the set apart Spirit of promise,
 14. who is a pledge of our inheritance, to the redemption of God’s own possession, to the praise of his glory.
 15. For this cause I also, having heard of the trusting the process in the boss Jesus which is among you, and the show love which you have toward all the saints,
 16. don’t cease to hook it up thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers,
 17. that the God of our boss Jesus anointed one, the Father of glory, may hook it up to you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him;
 18. having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may get it what is the hope of his calling, and what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints,
 19. and what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to that working of the strength of his might
 20. which he worked in anointed one, when he raised him from the dead, and made him to sit at his right hand in the heavenly places,
 21. far above all rule, and authority, and power, and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is to come through.
 22. He put all things in subjection under his feet, and gave him to be head over all things for the assembly,
 23. which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all.
