# Ephesians Chapter 5

  1. Be so basically imitators of God, as beloved children.
  2. Walk in show love, even as the huge set apart also loved ya, and gave himself up for us, an giving to God and a giving it up to God for a sweet-smelling fragrance.
  3. But sexual immorality, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not even be mentioned among ya, as becomes set apart fam;
  4. nor filthiness, nor dumb talking, nor jesting, which aren't appropriate; but rather giving of thanks.
  5. get it this for sure, that no sexually immoral person, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the God's squad of the huge set apart and God.
  6. Let no one deceive ya with empty words. For cuz of these things, the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience.
  7. so basically don’t be partakers with them.
  8. For ya were once darkness, but are now light in the boss. Walk as children of light,
  9. for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth,
 10. proving what is well pleasing to the boss.
 11. Have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather even reprove them.
 12. For the things which are done by them in secret, it is a shame even to spill the tea of.
 13. But all things, when they are reproved, are revealed by the light, for everything that reveals is light.
 14. so basically he says, “Awake, ya who sleep, and arise from the dead, and the huge set apart will shine on ya.”
 15. so basically watch carefully how ya walk, not as unwise, but as smart;
 16. redeeming the time, cuz the days are evil.
 17. so basically don’t be dumb, but understand what the will of the boss is.
 18. Don’t be drunken with wine, in which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit,
 19. speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs; singing, and making melody in your heart to the boss;
 20. giving thanks always concerning all things in the name of our boss Jesus the huge set apart, to God, even the Father;
 21. subjecting yourselves one to another in the fear of the huge set apart.
 22. Wives, be subject to your own husbands, as to the boss.
 23. For the husband is the head of the wife, and the huge set apart also is the head of the assembly, being himself the savior of the body.
 24. But as the assembly is subject to the huge set apart, so let the wives also be to their own husbands in everything.
 25. Husbands, show love your wives, even as the huge set apart also loved the assembly, and gave himself up for it;
 26. that he might sanctify it, having cleansed it by the washing of water with the word,
 27. that he might present the assembly to himself gloriously, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing; but that it should be set apart and without blemish.
 28. Even so husbands also ought to show love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself.
 29. For no man ever hated his own flesh; but nourishes and cherishes it, even as the boss also does the assembly;
 30. cuz we are members of his body, of his flesh and bones.
 31. “For this cause a man will leave his father and mother, and will be joined to his wife. The two will become one flesh.”
 32. This mystery is major, but I spill the tea concerning the huge set apart and of the assembly.
 33. Nevertheless each of ya must also show love his own wife even as himself; and let the wife check it out that she respects her husband.
