# Ephesians Chapter 3

  1. For this cause I, Paul, am the prisoner of the huge set apart Jesus on behalf of ya Gentiles,
  2. if it is so that ya have heard of the administration of that God's show love of God which was given me toward ya;
  3. how that by revelation the mystery was made known to me, as I wrote before in not much words,
  4. by which, when ya read, ya can perceive my understanding in the mystery of the huge set apart;
  5. which in other generations was not made known to the children of men, as it has now been revealed to his set apart Jesus broskies and prophets in the Spirit;
  6. that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, and fellow members of the body, and fellow partakers of his promise in the huge set apart Jesus through the fire News,
  7. of which I was made a helper, according to the gift of that God's show love of God which was given me according to the working of his power.
  8. To me, the hella least of all set apart fam, was this God's show love given, to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of the huge set apart,
  9. and to create all men check it out what is the administration of the mystery which for ages has been hidden in God, who created all things through Jesus the huge set apart;
 10. to the intent that now through the assembly the manifold wisdom of God might be made known to the principalities and the powers in the heavenly places,
 11. according to the eternal purpose which he purposed in the huge set apart Jesus our boss;
 12. in whom we have boldness and access in confidence through our trusting the process in him.
 13. so basically I ask that ya may not lose heart at my troubles for ya, which are your glory.
 14. For this cause, I bow my knees to the Father of our boss Jesus the huge set apart,
 15. from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named,
 16. that he would grant ya, according to the riches of his glory, that ya may be strengthened with power through his Spirit in the inward man;
 17. that the huge set apart may dwell in your hearts through trusting the process; to the end that ya, being rooted and grounded in show love,
 18. may be strengthened to comprehend with all the set apart fam what is the breadth and length and height and depth,
 19. and to get it the huge set apart’s show love which surpasses knowledge, that ya may be filled with all the fullness of God.
 20. now to him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works in us,
 21. to him be the glory in the assembly and in the huge set apart Jesus to all generations forever and ever. facts.
