# Numbers Chapter 15

    1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
    2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When ya have come through through into the land of your habitations, which I hook it up to ya,
    3. and will create an giving to God by fire to Yahweh, a burnt giving to God, or a giving it up, to accomplish a vow, or as a freewill giving to God, or in your set feasts, to create a pleasant aroma to Yahweh, of the herd, or of the flock;
    4. then he who offers his giving to God shall offer to Yahweh a meal giving to God of a tenth part of an ephah of fine flour mixed with the fourth part of a hin of oil:
    5. and wine for the drink giving to God, the fourth part of a hin, ya shall prepare with the burnt giving to God, or for the giving it up, for each lamb.
    6. “‘Or for a ram, ya shall prepare for a meal giving to God two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mixed with the third part of a hin of oil:
    7. and for the drink giving to God ya shall offer the third part of a hin of wine, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
    8. When ya prepare a bull for a burnt giving to God, or for a giving it up, to accomplish a vow, or for peace offerings to Yahweh;
    9. then shall he offer with the bull a meal giving to God of three tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mixed with half a hin of oil:
  10. and ya shall offer for the drink giving to God half a hin of wine, for an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
  11. Thus shall it be done for each bull, or for each ram, or for each of the male lambs, or of the young goats.
  12. According to the number that ya shall prepare, so ya shall do to everyone according to their number.
  13. “‘All who are native-born shall do these things in this way, in giving to God an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
  14. If a stranger lives as a foreigner with ya, or whoever may be among ya throughout your generations, and will offer an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh; as ya do, so he shall do.
  15. For the assembly, there shall be one statute for ya, and for the stranger who lives as a foreigner, a statute forever throughout your generations: as ya are, so shall the foreigner be before Yahweh.
  16. One law and one ordinance shall be for ya, and for the stranger who lives as a foreigner with ya.’”
  17. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  18. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When ya come through through into the land where I bring ya,
  19. then it shall be that when ya eat of the bread of the land, ya shall offer up a wave giving to God to Yahweh.
  20. Of the first of your dough ya shall offer up a cake for a wave giving to God: as the wave giving to God of the threshing floor, so ya shall heave it.
  21. Of the first of your dough ya shall hook it up to Yahweh a wave giving to God throughout your generations.
  22. “‘When ya shall err, and not observe all these commandments, which Yahweh has spoken to Moses,
  23. even all that Yahweh has commanded ya by Moses, from the day that Yahweh gave commandment, and onward throughout your generations;
  24. then it shall be, if it be done unwittingly, without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bull for a burnt giving to God, for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh, with the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it, according to the ordinance, and one male goat for a messing up giving to God.
  25. The priest shall create atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and they shall be forgiven; for it was an error, and they have brought their giving to God, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh, and their messing up giving to God before Yahweh, for their error:
  26. and all the congregation of the children of Israel shall be forgiven, and the stranger who lives as a foreigner among them; for in respect of all the people it was done unwittingly.
  27. “‘If one person sins unwittingly, then he shall offer a female goat a year old for a messing up giving to God.
  28. The priest shall create atonement for the soul who errs, when he sins unwittingly, before Yahweh, to create atonement for him; and he shall be forgiven.
  29. ya shall have one law for him who does anything unwittingly, for him who is native-born among the children of Israel, and for the stranger who lives as a foreigner among them.
  30. “‘But the soul who does anything with a high hand, whether he is native-born or a foreigner, the same blasphemes Yahweh; and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
  31. cuz he has despised the word of Yahweh, and has broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be on him.’”
  32. While the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks on the Sabbath day.
  33. Those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation.
  34. They put him in custody, cuz it had not been declared what should be done to him.
  35. Yahweh said to Moses, “The man shall surely be put to death: all the congregation shall stone him with stones outside of the camp.”
  36. All the congregation brought him outside of the camp, and stoned him to death with stones; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
  37. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  38. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them that they should create themselves fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and that they put on the fringe of each border a cord of blue:
  39. and it shall be to ya for a fringe, that ya may look on it, and remember all the commandments of Yahweh, and do them; and that ya not roll with after your own heart and your own eyes, after which ya use to play the prostitute;
  40. that ya may remember and do all my commandments, and be yeeted to your God.
  41. I am Yahweh your God, who brought ya out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am Yahweh your God.”
