# Numbers Chapter 29

    1. “‘In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, ya shall have a yeeted convocation; ya shall do no servile work: it is a day of blowing of trumpets to ya.
    2. ya shall offer a burnt giving to God for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh: one young bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
    3. and their meal giving to God, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for the bull, two tenth parts for the ram,
    4. and one tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
    5. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God, to create atonement for ya;
    6. besides the burnt giving to God of the new moon, and the meal giving to God of it, and the continual burnt giving to God and the meal giving to God of it, and their drink offerings, according to their ordinance, for a pleasant aroma, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
    7. “‘On the tenth day of this seventh month ya shall have a yeeted convocation; and ya shall afflict your souls: ya shall do no kind of work;
    8. but ya shall offer a burnt giving to God to Yahweh for a pleasant aroma: one young bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old; they shall be to ya without blemish;
    9. and their meal giving to God, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for the bull, two tenth parts for the one ram,
  10. a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs:
  11. one male goat for a messing up giving to God; besides the messing up giving to God of atonement, and the continual burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God of it, and their drink offerings.
  12. “‘On the fifteenth day of the seventh month ya shall have a yeeted convocation; ya shall do no servile work, and ya shall keep a feast to Yahweh seven days:
  13. and ya shall offer a burnt giving to God, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh; thirteen young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old; they shall be without blemish;
  14. and their meal giving to God, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for every bull of the thirteen bulls, two tenth parts for each ram of the two rams,
  15. and a tenth part for every lamb of the fourteen lambs;
  16. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God, besides the continual burnt giving to God, the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it.
  17. “‘On the second day ya shall offer twelve young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
  18. and their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
  19. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God; besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God of it, and their drink offerings.
  20. “‘On the third day eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
  21. and their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
  22. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God; besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it.
  23. “‘On the fourth day ten bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
  24. their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
  25. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God; besides the continual burnt giving to God, the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it.
  26. “‘On the fifth day nine bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
  27. and their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
  28. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God, besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it.
  29. “‘On the sixth day eight bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
  30. and their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
  31. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God; besides the continual burnt giving to God, the meal giving to God of it, and the drink offerings of it.
  32. “‘On the seventh day seven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
  33. and their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
  34. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God; besides the continual burnt giving to God, the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it.
  35. “‘On the eighth day ya shall have a solemn assembly: ya shall do no servile work;
  36. but ya shall offer a burnt giving to God, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh: one bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
  37. their meal giving to God and their drink offerings for the bull, for the ram, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the ordinance:
  38. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God, besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God of it, and the drink giving to God of it.
  39. “‘ya shall offer these to Yahweh in your set feasts, besides your vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your meal offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.’”
  40. Moses told the children of Israel according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses.
