# Numbers Chapter 18

  1. Yahweh said to Aaron, “ya and your sons and your fathers’ house with ya shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary; and ya and your sons with ya shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood.
  2. Your brothers also, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of your father, bring near with ya, that they may be joined to ya, and minister to ya: but ya and your sons with ya shall be before the tent of the testimony.
  3. They shall keep your commands, and the duty of all the Tent: only they won't come through near to the vessels of the sanctuary and to the prayer spot, that they not die, neither they, nor ya.
  4. They shall be joined to ya, and keep the responsibility of the Tent of Meeting, for all the service of the Tent: and a stranger won't come through near to ya.
  5. “ya shall perform the duty of the sanctuary, and the duty of the prayer spot; that there be no more wrath on the children of Israel.
  6. I, check this out,, I have taken your brothers the Levites from among the children of Israel: to ya they are a gift, given to Yahweh, to do the service of the Tent of Meeting.
  7. ya and your sons with ya shall keep your priesthood for everything of the prayer spot, and for that within the veil; and ya shall help out out: I hook it up ya the priesthood as a service of gift: and the stranger who comes near shall be put to death.”
  8. Yahweh spoke to Aaron, “I, check this out,, I have given ya the command of my wave offerings, even all the set apart things of the children of Israel; to ya have I given them by reason of the anointing, and to your sons, as a portion forever.
  9. This shall be yours of the most set apart things from the fire: every giving to God of theirs, even every meal giving to God of theirs, and every messing up giving to God of theirs, and every trespass giving to God of theirs, which they shall render to me, shall be most set apart for ya and for your sons.
 10. ya shall eat of it like the most set apart things. Every male shall eat of it. It shall be set apart to ya.
 11. “This is yours, too: the wave giving to God of their gift, even all the wave offerings of the children of Israel. I have given them to ya, and to your sons and to your daughters with ya, as a portion forever. Everyone who is clean in your house shall eat of it.
 12. “All the best of the oil, and all the best of the vintage, and of the grain, the first fruits of them which they hook it up to Yahweh, to ya have I given them.
 13. The first-ripe fruits of all that is in their land, which they bring to Yahweh, shall be yours; everyone who is clean in your house shall eat of it.
 14. “Everything devoted in Israel shall be yours.
 15. Everything that opens the womb, of all flesh which they offer to Yahweh, both of man and animal shall be yours: nevertheless ya shall surely redeem the firstborn of man, and ya shall redeem the firstborn of unclean animals.
 16. ya shall redeem those who are to be redeemed of them from a month old, according to your estimation, for five shekels of money, after the shekel of the sanctuary (the same is twenty gerahs).
 17. “But ya won't redeem the firstborn of a cow, or the firstborn of a sheep, or the firstborn of a goat. They are set apart. ya shall sprinkle their blood on the prayer spot, and shall burn their fat for an giving to God made by fire, for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
 18. Their flesh shall be yours, as the wave giving to God breast and as the right thigh, it shall be yours.
 19. All the wave offerings of the set apart things, which the children of Israel offer to Yahweh, have I given ya, and your sons and your daughters with ya, as a portion forever: it is a God's promise of salt forever before Yahweh to ya and to your seed with ya.”
 20. Yahweh said to Aaron, “ya shall have no inheritance in their land, neither shall ya have any portion among them. I am your portion and your inheritance among the children of Israel.
 21. “To the children of Levi, check this out,, I have given all the tithe in Israel for an inheritance, in return for their service which they help out out, even the service of the Tent of Meeting.
 22. Henceforth the children of Israel won't come through near the Tent of Meeting, lest they bear messing up, and die.
 23. But the Levites shall do the service of the Tent of Meeting, and they shall bear their iniquity: it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations; and among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.
 24. For the tithe of the children of Israel, which they offer as a wave giving to God to Yahweh, I have given to the Levites for an inheritance: so basically I have said to them, ‘Among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.’”
 25. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 26. “Moreover ya shall spill the tea to the Levites, and tell them, ‘When ya grab of the children of Israel the tithe which I have given ya from them for your inheritance, then ya shall offer up a wave giving to God of it for Yahweh, a tithe of the tithe.
 27. Your wave giving to God shall be reckoned to ya, as though it were the grain of the threshing floor, and as the fullness of the winepress.
 28. Thus ya also shall offer a wave giving to God to Yahweh of all your tithes, which ya receive of the children of Israel; and of it ya shall hook it up Yahweh’s wave giving to God to Aaron the priest.
 29. Out of all your gifts ya shall offer every wave giving to God of Yahweh, of all its best, even the set apart part of it out of it.’
 30. “so basically ya shall tell them, ‘When ya heave its best from it, then it shall be reckoned to the Levites as the increase of the threshing floor, and as the increase of the winepress.
 31. ya shall eat it in every place, ya and your households: for it is your reward in return for your service in the Tent of Meeting.
 32. ya shall bear no messing up by reason of it, when ya have heaved from it its best: and ya won't profane the set apart things of the children of Israel, that ya not die.’”
