# Numbers Chapter 34

    1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
    2. “Command the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When ya come through through into the land of Canaan (this is the land that shall fall to ya for an inheritance, even the land of Canaan according to its borders),
    3. then your south quarter shall be from the wilderness of Zin along by the side of Edom, and your south border shall be from the end of the Salt Sea eastward;
    4. and your border shall turn about southward of the ascent of Akrabbim, and pass along to Zin; and the goings out of it shall be southward of Kadesh Barnea; and it shall slide forth to Hazar Addar, and pass along to Azmon;
    5. and the border shall turn about from Azmon to the brook of Egypt, and the goings out of it shall be at the sea.
    6. “‘For the western border, ya shall have the major sea and its border: this shall be your west border.
    7. “‘This shall be your north border: from the major sea ya shall mark out for ya Mount Hor;
    8. from Mount Hor ya shall mark out to the entrance of Hamath; and the goings out of the border shall be at Zedad;
    9. and the border shall slide forth to Ziphron, and the goings out of it shall be at Hazar Enan: this shall be your north border.
  10. “‘ya shall mark out your east border from Hazar Enan to Shepham;
  11. and the border shall slide down from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain; and the border shall slide down, and shall reach to the side of the sea of Chinnereth eastward;
  12. and the border shall slide down to the Jordan, and the goings out of it shall be at the Salt Sea. This shall be your land according to its borders around it.’”
  13. Moses commanded the children of Israel, saying, “This is the land which ya shall inherit by lot, which Yahweh has commanded to hook it up to the nine tribes, and to the half-tribe;
  14. for the tribe of the children of Reuben according to their fathers’ houses, and the tribe of the children of Gad according to their fathers’ houses, have received, and the half-tribe of Manasseh have received, their inheritance:
  15. the two tribes and the half-tribe have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan at Jericho eastward, toward the sunrise.”
  16. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  17. “These are the names of the men who shall divide the land to ya for inheritance: Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun.
  18. ya shall grab one prince of every tribe, to divide the land for inheritance.
  19. These are the names of the men: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
  20. Of the tribe of the children of Simeon, Shemuel the son of Ammihud.
  21. Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon.
  22. Of the tribe of the children of Dan a prince, Bukki the son of Jogli.
  23. Of the children of Joseph: of the tribe of the children of Manasseh a prince, Hanniel the son of Ephod.
  24. Of the tribe of the children of Ephraim a prince, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan.
  25. Of the tribe of the children of Zebulun a prince, Elizaphan the son of Parnach.
  26. Of the tribe of the children of Issachar a prince, Paltiel the son of Azzan.
  27. Of the tribe of the children of Asher a prince, Ahihud the son of Shelomi.
  28. Of the tribe of the children of Naphtali a prince, Pedahel the son of Ammihud.”
  29. These are they whom Yahweh commanded to divide the inheritance to the children of Israel in the land of Canaan.
