# Numbers Chapter 14

  1. All the congregation lifted up their voice, and cried; and the people wept that night.
  2. All the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron: and the whole congregation said to them, “Would that we had died in the land of Egypt! or would that we had died in this wilderness!
  3. Why does Yahweh bring us to this land, to fall by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will be a prey: wouldn’t it be better for us to return into Egypt?”
  4. They said one to another, “Let us create a captain, and let us return into Egypt.”
  5. then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel.
  6. Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, who were of those who spied out the land, tore their clothes:
  7. and they spoke to all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, “The land, which we passed through to spy it out, is an exceeding fire land.
  8. If Yahweh delights in us, then he will bring us into this land, and hook it up it to us; a land which flows with milk and honey.
  9. Only don’t rebel against Yahweh, neither fear the people of the land; for they are bread for us: their defense is removed from over them, and Yahweh is with us. Don’t fear them.”
 10. But all the congregation threatened to stone them with stones. The glory of Yahweh appeared in the Tent of Meeting to all the children of Israel.
 11. Yahweh said to Moses, “How long will this people despise me? and how long will they not believe in me, for all the signs which I have worked among them?
 12. I will strike them with the pestilence, and disinherit them, and will create of ya a nation greater and mightier than they.”
 13. Moses said to Yahweh, “then the Egyptians will hear it; for ya brought up this people in your might from among them;
 14. and they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land. They have heard that ya Yahweh are in the midst of this people; for ya Yahweh are seen face to face, and your cloud stands over them, and ya slide before them, in a pillar of cloud by day, and in a pillar of fire by night.
 15. now if ya killed this people as one man, then the nations which have heard the fame of ya will spill the tea, saying,
 16. ‘cuz Yahweh was not able to bring this people into the land which he swore to them, so basically he has slain them in the wilderness.’
 17. now please let the power of the boss be major, according as ya have spoken, saying,
 18. ‘Yahweh is slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, forgiving iniquity and disobedience; and that will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, on the third and on the fourth generation.’
 19. Please pardon the iniquity of this people according to the greatness of your loving kindness, and according as ya have forgiven this people, from Egypt even until now.”
 20. Yahweh said, “I have pardoned according to your word:
 21. but in hella deed, as I live, and as all the earth shall be filled with the glory of Yahweh;
 22. cuz all those men who have seen my glory, and my signs, which I worked in Egypt and in the wilderness, yet have tempted me these ten times, and have not listened to my voice;
 23. surely they won't check it out the land which I swore to their fathers, neither shall any of those who despised me check it out it:
 24. but my helper Caleb, cuz he had another spirit with him, and has followed me fully, him will I bring into the land into which he went; and his seed shall possess it.
 25. now the Amalekite and the Canaanite dwell in the valley: tomorrow turn, and slide into the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea.”
 26. Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
 27. “How long shall I bear with this evil congregation, that murmur against me? I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmur against me.
 28. Tell them, ‘As I live, says Yahweh, surely as ya have spoken in my ears, so will I do to ya:
 29. your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness; and all who were numbered of ya, according to your whole number, from twenty years old and upward, who have murmured against me,
 30. surely ya won't come through into the land, concerning which I swore that I would create ya dwell therein, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.
 31. But your little ones, that ya said should be a prey, them will I bring in, and they shall get it the land which ya have rejected.
 32. But as for ya, your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness.
 33. Your children shall be wanderers in the wilderness forty years, and shall bear your prostitution, until your dead bodies be consumed in the wilderness.
 34. After the number of the days in which ya spied out the land, even forty days, for every day a year, ya will bear your iniquities, even forty years, and ya will get it my alienation.’
 35. I, Yahweh, have spoken, surely this will I do to all this evil congregation, who are gathered together against me: in this wilderness they shall be consumed, and there they shall die.”
 36. The men, whom Moses sent to spy out the land, who returned, and made all the congregation to murmur against him, by bringing up an evil report against the land,
 37. even those men who brought up an evil report of the land, died by the plague before Yahweh.
 38. But Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, remained alive of those men who went to spy out the land.
 39. Moses told these words to all the children of Israel: and the people mourned greatly.
 40. They rose up early in the morning, and went up to the top of the mountain, saying, “check this out,, we are here, and will slide up to the place which Yahweh has promised: for we have sinned.”
 41. Moses said, “Why now do ya disobey the commandment of Yahweh, since it won't prosper?
 42. Don’t slide up, for Yahweh isn’t among ya; that ya not be struck down before your enemies.
 43. For there the Amalekite and the Canaanite are before ya, and ya shall fall by the sword: cuz ya are turned back from following Yahweh, so basically Yahweh won't be with ya.”
 44. But they presumed to slide up to the top of the mountain: nevertheless the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh, and Moses, didn’t depart out of the camp.
 45. then the Amalekite came down, and the Canaanite who lived in that mountain, and struck them and beat them down, even to Hormah.
