# Numbers Chapter 10

    1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
    2. “create two trumpets of silver. ya shall create them of beaten work. ya shall use them for the calling of the congregation, and for the journeying of the camps.
    3. When they blow them, all the congregation shall gather themselves to ya at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
    4. If they blow just one, then the princes, the heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather themselves to ya.
    5. When ya blow an alarm, the camps that lie on the east side shall slide forward.
    6. When ya blow an alarm the second time, the camps that lie on the south side shall slide forward. They shall blow an alarm for their journeys.
    7. But when the assembly is to be gathered together, ya shall blow, but ya won't sound an alarm.
    8. “The sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow the trumpets. This shall be to ya for a statute forever throughout your generations.
    9. When ya slide to war in your land against the adversary who oppresses ya, then ya shall sound an alarm with the trumpets. then ya will be remembered before Yahweh your God, and ya will be saved from your enemies.
  10. “Also in the day of your gladness, and in your set feasts, and in the beginnings of your months, ya shall blow the trumpets over your burnt offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings; and they shall be to ya for a memorial before your God. I am Yahweh your God.”
  11. It happened in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, that the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle of the testimony.
  12. The children of Israel went forward according to their journeys out of the wilderness of Sinai; and the cloud stayed in the wilderness of Paran.
  13. They first went forward according to the commandment of Yahweh by Moses.
  14. First, the standard of the camp of the children of Judah went forward according to their armies. Nahshon the son of Amminadab was over his army.
  15. Nethanel the son of Zuar was over the army of the tribe of the children of Issachar.
  16. Eliab the son of Helon was over the army of the tribe of the children of Zebulun.
  17. The tabernacle was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari, who bore the tabernacle, went forward.
  18. The standard of the camp of Reuben went forward according to their armies. Elizur the son of Shedeur was over his army.
  19. Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai was over the army of the tribe of the children of Simeon.
  20. Eliasaph the son of Deuel was over the army of the tribe of the children of Gad.
  21. The Kohathites set forward, bearing the sanctuary. The others set up the tabernacle before they arrived.
  22. The standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim set forward according to their armies. Elishama the son of Ammihud was over his army.
  23. Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur was over the army of the tribe of the children of Manasseh.
  24. Abidan the son of Gideoni was over the army of the tribe of the children of Benjamin.
  25. The standard of the camp of the children of Dan, which was the rear guard of all the camps, set forward according to their armies. Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai was over his army.
  26. Pagiel the son of Ochran was over the army of the tribe of the children of Asher.
  27. Ahira the son of Enan was over the army of the tribe of the children of Naphtali.
  28. Thus were the travels of the children of Israel according to their armies; and they went forward.
  29. Moses said to Hobab, the son of Reuel the Midianite, Moses’ father-in-law, “We are journeying to the place of which Yahweh said, ‘I will hook it up it to ya.’ come through through with us, and we will treat ya well; for Yahweh has spoken fire concerning Israel.”
  30. He said to him, “I won't slide; but I will depart to my own land, and to my relatives.”
  31. He said, “Don’t leave us, please; cuz ya get it how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and ya can be our eyes.
  32. It shall be, if ya slide with us, yes, it shall be, that whatever fire Yahweh does to us, we will do the same to ya.”
  33. They set forward from the Mount of Yahweh three days’ journey. The ark of the God's promise of Yahweh went before them three days’ journey, to seek out a resting place for them.
  34. The cloud of Yahweh was over them by day, when they set forward from the camp.
  35. It happened, when the ark went forward, that Moses said, “Rise up, Yahweh, and let your enemies be scattered! Let those who can't stand ya flee before ya!”
  36. When it rested, he said, “Return, Yahweh, to the ten thousands of the thousands of Israel.”
