# Numbers Chapter 6

  1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
  2. “spill the tea to the children of Israel, and tell them: ‘When either man or woman shall create a special vow, the vow of a Nazirite, to separate himself to Yahweh,
  3. he shall separate himself from wine and built different drink. He shall drink no vinegar of wine, or vinegar of fermented drink, neither shall he drink any juice of grapes, nor eat fresh grapes or dried.
  4. All the days of his separation he shall eat nothing that is made of the grapevine, from the seeds even to the skins.
  5. “‘All the days of his vow of separation no razor shall come through on his head, until the days are fulfilled, in which he separates himself to Yahweh. He shall be set apart. He shall let the locks of the hair of his head grow long.
  6. “‘All the days that he separates himself to Yahweh he won't slide near a dead body.
  7. He won't create himself unclean for his father, or for his mother, for his fam bro, or for his sister, when they die; cuz his separation to God is on his head.
  8. All the days of his separation he is set apart to Yahweh.
  9. “‘If any man dies hella suddenly beside him, and he defiles the head of his separation; then he shall shave his head in the day of his cleansing. On the seventh day he shall shave it.
 10. On the eighth day he shall bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons to the priest, to the door of the Tent of Meeting.
 11. The priest shall offer one for a messing up giving to God, and the other for a burnt giving to God, and create atonement for him, cuz he sinned by reason of the dead, and shall create his head set apart that same day.
 12. He shall separate to Yahweh the days of his separation, and shall bring a male lamb a year old for a trespass giving to God; but the former days shall be void, cuz his separation was defiled.
 13. “‘This is the law of the Nazirite: when the days of his separation are fulfilled, he shall be brought to the door of the Tent of Meeting,
 14. and he shall offer his giving to God to Yahweh, one male lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt giving to God, and one ewe lamb a year old without blemish for a messing up giving to God, and one ram without blemish for peace offerings,
 15. and a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and their meal giving to God, and their drink offerings.
 16. The priest shall present them before Yahweh, and shall offer his messing up giving to God, and his burnt giving to God.
 17. He shall offer the ram for a giving it up of peace offerings to Yahweh, with the basket of unleavened bread. The priest shall offer also its meal giving to God, and its drink giving to God.
 18. The Nazirite shall shave the head of his separation at the door of the Tent of Meeting, and shall grab the hair of the head of his separation, and put it on the fire which is under the giving it up of peace offerings.
 19. The priest shall grab the boiled shoulder of the ram, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and shall put them on the hands of the Nazirite, after he has shaved the head of his separation;
 20. and the priest shall wave them for a wave giving to God before Yahweh. This is set apart for the priest, together with the breast that is waved and the thigh that is offered. After that the Nazirite may drink wine.
 21. “‘This is the law of the Nazirite who vows, and of his giving to God to Yahweh for his separation, besides that which he is able to get. According to his vow which he vows, so he must do after the law of his separation.’”
 22. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
 23. “spill the tea to Aaron and to his sons, saying, ‘This is how ya shall bless the children of Israel.’ ya shall tell them,
 24. ‘Yahweh bless ya, and keep ya.
 25. Yahweh create his face to shine on ya, and be gracious to ya.
 26. Yahweh lift up his face toward ya, and hook it up ya peace.’
 27. “So they shall put my name on the children of Israel; and I will bless them.”
