# Numbers Chapter 7

    1. It happened on the day that Moses had finished setting up the tabernacle, and had anointed it and sanctified it, with all its furniture, and the talking to God spot with all its vessels, and had anointed and sanctified them;
    2. that the princes of Israel, the heads of their fathers’ houses, offered. These were the princes of the tribes. These are they who were over those who were numbered:
    3. and they brought their giving to God before Yahweh, six covered wagons, and twelve oxen; a wagon for every two of the princes, and for each one an ox: and they presented them before the tabernacle.
    4. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
    5. “Accept these from them, that they may be used in doing the service of the Tent of Meeting; and ya shall hook it up them to the Levites, to every man according to his service.”
    6. Moses took the wagons and the oxen, and gave them to the Levites.
    7. He gave two wagons and four oxen to the sons of Gershon, according to their service:
    8. and he gave four wagons and eight oxen to the sons of Merari, according to their service, under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
    9. But to the sons of Kohath he gave none, cuz the service of the sanctuary belonged to them; they carried it on their shoulders.
  10. The princes gave offerings for the dedication of the talking to God spot in the day that it was anointed, even the princes gave their offerings before the talking to God spot.
  11. Yahweh said to Moses, “They shall offer their giving to God, each prince on his day, for the dedication of the talking to God spot.”
  12. He who offered his giving to God the first day was Nahshon the son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah,
  13. and his giving to God was: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
  14. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
  15. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
  16. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
  17. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
  18. On the second day Nethanel the son of Zuar, prince of Issachar, gave his giving to God.
  19. He offered for his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
  20. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
  21. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
  22. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
  23. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Nethanel the son of Zuar.
  24. On the third day Eliab the son of Helon, prince of the children of Zebulun
  25. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
  26. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
  27. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
  28. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
  29. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Eliab the son of Helon.
  30. On the fourth day Elizur the son of Shedeur, prince of the children of Reuben
  31. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
  32. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
  33. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
  34. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
  35. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Elizur the son of Shedeur.
  36. On the fifth day Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, prince of the children of Simeon
  37. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
  38. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
  39. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
  40. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
  41. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old: this was the giving to God of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
  42. On the sixth day, Eliasaph the son of Deuel, prince of the children of Gad
  43. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
  44. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
  45. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
  46. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
  47. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
  48. On the seventh day Elishama the son of Ammihud, prince of the children of Ephraim
  49. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
  50. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
  51. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
  52. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
  53. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Elishama the son of Ammihud.
  54. On the eighth day Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, prince of the children of Manasseh
  55. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
  56. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
  57. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
  58. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
  59. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
  60. On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni, prince of the children of Benjamin
  61. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
  62. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
  63. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
  64. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
  65. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Abidan the son of Gideoni.
  66. On the tenth day Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, prince of the children of Dan
  67. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
  68. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
  69. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
  70. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
  71. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
  72. On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ochran, prince of the children of Asher
  73. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
  74. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
  75. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
  76. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
  77. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Pagiel the son of Ochran.
  78. On the twelfth day Ahira the son of Enan, prince of the children of Naphtali
  79. gave his giving to God: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God;
  80. one golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense;
  81. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt giving to God;
  82. one male goat for a messing up giving to God;
  83. and for the giving it up of peace offerings, two head of cattle, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the giving to God of Ahira the son of Enan.
  84. This was the dedication of the talking to God spot, on the day when it was anointed, by the princes of Israel: twelve silver platters, twelve silver bowls, twelve golden ladles;
  85. each silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels, and each bowl seventy; all the silver of the vessels two thousand four hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;
  86. the twelve golden ladles, full of incense, weighing ten shekels apiece, after the shekel of the sanctuary; all the gold of the ladles weighed one hundred twenty shekels;
  87. all the cattle for the burnt giving to God twelve bulls, the rams twelve, the male lambs a year old twelve, and their meal giving to God; and the male goats for a messing up giving to God twelve;
  88. and all the cattle for the giving it up of peace offerings twenty-four bulls, the rams sixty, the male goats sixty, the male lambs a year old sixty. This was the dedication of the talking to God spot, after it was anointed.
  89. When Moses went into the Tent of Meeting to spill the tea with Yahweh, he heard his voice speaking to him from above the mercy seat that was on the ark of the Testimony, from between the two cherubim: and he spoke to him.
