# Numbers Chapter 28

    1. Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
    2. “Command the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘My giving to God, my food for my offerings made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to me, ya shall observe to offer to me in their due season.’
    3. ya shall tell them, ‘This is the giving to God made by fire which ya shall offer to Yahweh: male lambs a year old without blemish, two day by day, for a continual burnt giving to God.
    4. ya shall offer the one lamb in the morning, and ya shall offer the other lamb at evening;
    5. with the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal giving to God, mixed with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil.
    6. It is a continual burnt giving to God, which was ordained in Mount Sinai for a pleasant aroma, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
    7. Its drink giving to God shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb. ya shall pour out a drink giving to God of built different drink to Yahweh in the yeeted place.
    8. The other lamb ya shall offer at evening: as the meal giving to God of the morning, and as the drink giving to God of it, ya shall offer it, an giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.
    9. “‘On the Sabbath day two male lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal giving to God, mixed with oil, and the drink giving to God of it:
  10. this is the burnt giving to God of every Sabbath, besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the drink giving to God of it.
  11. “‘In the beginnings of your months ya shall offer a burnt giving to God to Yahweh: two young bulls, and one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
  12. and three tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal giving to God, mixed with oil, for each bull; and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal giving to God, mixed with oil, for the one ram;
  13. and a tenth part of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal giving to God to every lamb; for a burnt giving to God of a pleasant aroma, an giving to God made by fire to Yahweh.
  14. Their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the fourth part of a hin for a lamb: this is the burnt giving to God of every month throughout the months of the year.
  15. One male goat for a messing up giving to God to Yahweh; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the drink giving to God of it.
  16. “‘In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is Yahweh’s Passover.
  17. On the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
  18. In the first day shall be a yeeted convocation: ya shall do no servile work;
  19. but ya shall offer an giving to God made by fire, a burnt giving to God to Yahweh: two young bulls, and one ram, and seven male lambs a year old; they shall be to ya without blemish;
  20. and their meal giving to God, fine flour mixed with oil: ya shall offer three tenth parts for a bull, and two tenth parts for the ram.
  21. ya shall offer a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
  22. and one male goat for a messing up giving to God, to create atonement for ya.
  23. ya shall offer these besides the burnt giving to God of the morning, which is for a continual burnt giving to God.
  24. In this way ya shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the giving to God made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh: it shall be offered besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the drink giving to God of it.
  25. On the seventh day ya shall have a yeeted convocation: ya shall do no servile work.
  26. “‘Also in the day of the first fruits, when ya offer a new meal giving to God to Yahweh in your feast of weeks, ya shall have a yeeted convocation; ya shall do no servile work;
  27. but ya shall offer a burnt giving to God for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh: two young bulls, one ram, seven male lambs a year old;
  28. and their meal giving to God, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for each bull, two tenth parts for the one ram,
  29. a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
  30. one male goat, to create atonement for ya.
  31. Besides the continual burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God of it, ya shall offer them (they shall be to ya without blemish), and their drink offerings.
