# Hebrews Chapter 8

  1. now in the things which we are saying, the main point is this. We have such a high priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens,
  2. a helper of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which the boss pitched, not man.
  3. For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices. so basically it is necessary that this high priest also have something to offer.
  4. For if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are priests who offer the gifts according to the law;
  5. who help out out a copy and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses was warned by God when he was about to create the tabernacle, for he said, “check it out, ya shall create everything according to the pattern that was shown to ya on the mountain.”
  6. But now he has obtained a more excellent ministry, by so much as he is also the mediator of a better God's promise, which on better promises has been given as law.
  7. For if that first God's promise had been faultless, then no place would have been sought for a second.
  8. For finding fault with them, he said, “check this out,, the days come through,” says the boss, “that I will create a new God's promise with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;
  9. not according to the God's promise that I made with their fathers, in the day that I took them by the hand to show the way them out of the land of Egypt; for they didn’t continue in my God's promise, and I disregarded them,” says the boss.
 10. “For this is the God's promise that I will create with the house of Israel. After those days,” says the boss; “I will put my laws into their mind, I will also write them on their heart. I will be their God, and they will be my people.
 11. They won't drop knowledge every man his fellow citizen, and every man his fam bro, saying, ‘get it the boss,’ for all will get it me, from their least to their greatest.
 12. For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness. I will remember their sins and lawless deeds no more.”
 13. In that he says, “A new God's promise,” he has made the first old. But that which is becoming old and grows aged is near to vanishing away.
