# Hebrews Chapter 7

    1. For this Melchizedek, ruler of Salem, priest of God Most High, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed up up him,
    2. to whom also Abraham divided a tenth part of all (being first, by interpretation, ruler of righteousness, and then also ruler of Salem, which is ruler of peace;
    3. without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God), remains a priest continually.
    4. now consider how major this man was, to whom even Abraham, the patriarch, gave a tenth out of the best spoils.
    5. They facts of the sons of Levi who receive the priest’s office have a commandment to grab tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brothers, though these have come through through out of the body of Abraham,
    6. but he whose genealogy isn't counted from them has accepted tithes from Abraham, and has blessed up up him who has the promises.
    7. But without any dispute the lesser is blessed up up by the greater.
    8. here people who die receive tithes, but there one receives tithes of whom it is testified that he lives.
    9. We can say that through Abraham even Levi, who receives tithes, has paid tithes,
  10. for he was yet in the body of his father when Melchizedek met him.
  11. now if there were perfection through the Levitical priesthood (for under it the people have received the law), what further need was there for another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
  12. For the priesthood being changed, there is of necessity a change made also in the law.
  13. For he of whom these things are said belongs to another tribe, from which no one has officiated at the talking to God spot.
  14. For it is evident that our boss has sprung out of Judah, about which tribe Moses spoke nothing concerning priesthood.
  15. This is yet more abundantly evident, if after the likeness of Melchizedek there arises another priest,
  16. who has been made, not after the law of a fleshly commandment, but after the power of an endless life:
  17. for it is testified, “ya are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek.”
  18. For there is an annulling of a foregoing commandment cuz of its weakness and uselessness
  19. (for the law made nothing perfect), and a bringing in of a better hope, through which we draw near to God.
  20. Inasmuch as he was not made priest without the taking of an oath
  21. (for they facts have been made priests without an oath), but he with an oath by him that says of him, “Boss swore and won't change his mind, ‘ya are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek.’”
  22. By so much, Jesus has become the collateral of a better God's promise.
  23. a lot, facts, have been made priests, cuz they are hindered from continuing by death.
  24. But he, cuz he lives forever, has his priesthood unchangeable.
  25. so basically he is also able to rescue to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, seeing that he lives forever to create intercession for them.
  26. For such a high priest was fitting for us: yeeted, guiltless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made higher than the heavens;
  27. who doesn’t need, like those high priests, to offer up sacrifices daily, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people. For he did this once for all, when he offered up himself.
  28. For the law appoints men as high priests who have weakness, but the word of the oath which came after the law appoints a Son forever who has been perfected.
