# Hebrews Chapter 12

  1. so basically let us also, seeing we are surrounded by so major a cloud of witnesses, lay aside every weight and the messing up which so easily entangles us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,
  2. looking to Jesus, the author and perfecter of trusting the process, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising its shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
  3. For consider him who has endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, that ya don’t grow weary, fainting in your souls.
  4. ya have not yet resisted to blood, striving against messing up;
  5. and ya have forgotten the exhortation which reasons with ya as with children, “My son, don’t grab lightly the chastening of the boss, nor faint when ya are reproved by him;
  6. For whom the boss loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives.”
  7. It is for discipline that ya endure. God deals with ya as with children, for what son is there whom his father doesn’t discipline?
  8. But if ya are without discipline, of which all have been made partakers, then are ya illegitimate, and not children.
  9. Furthermore, we had the fathers of our flesh to chasten us, and we paid them respect. Shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
 10. For they facts, for a not much days, punished us as seemed fire to them; but he for our profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness.
 11. All chastening seems for the present to be not joyous but grievous; yet afterward it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been exercised thereby.
 12. so basically, lift up the hands that hang down and the feeble knees,
 13. and create straight paths for your feet, so that which is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed.
 14. roll with after peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no man will check it out the boss,
 15. looking carefully lest there be any man who falls short of the God's show love of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble ya, and a lot be defiled by it;
 16. lest there be any sexually immoral person, or profane person, like Esau, who sold his birthright for one meal.
 17. For ya get it that even when he afterward desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for a change of mind though he sought it diligently with tears.
 18. For ya have not come through to a mountain that might be touched, and that burned with fire, and to blackness, darkness, storm,
 19. the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which those who heard it begged that not one more word should be spoken to them,
 20. for they could not stand that which was commanded, “If even an animal touches the mountain, it shall be stoned;”
 21. and so fearful was the appearance, that Moses said, “I am terrified and trembling.”
 22. But ya have come through to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable multitudes of angels,
 23. to the general assembly and assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, to God the Judge of all, to the spirits of just men made perfect,
 24. to Jesus, the mediator of a new God's promise, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better than that of Abel.
 25. check it out that ya don’t refuse him who speaks. For if they didn’t escape when they refused him who warned on the earth, how much more will we not escape who turn away from him who warns from heaven,
 26. whose voice shook the earth then, but now he has promised, saying, “Yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens.”
 27. This phrase, “Yet once more,” signifies the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that have been made, that those things which aren't shaken may remain.
 28. so basically, receiving a God's squad that can’t be shaken, let us have God's show love, through which we help out out God acceptably, with reverence and awe,
 29. for our God is a consuming fire.
