# Hebrews Chapter 10

  1. For the law, having a shadow of the fire to come through, not the hella image of the things, can never with the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, create perfect those who draw near.
  2. Or else wouldn’t they have ceased to be offered, cuz the worshippers, having been once cleansed, would have had no more consciousness of sins?
  3. But in those sacrifices there is a yearly reminder of sins.
  4. For it is impossible that the blood of bulls and goats should grab away sins.
  5. so basically when he comes into the world, he says, “giving it up and giving to God ya didn’t desire, but ya prepared a body for me;
  6. ya had no pleasure in whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for messing up.
  7. then I said, ‘check this out,, I have come through (in the scroll of the book it is written of me) to do your will, O God.’”
  8. Previously saying, “Sacrifices and offerings and whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for messing up ya didn’t desire, neither had pleasure in them” (those which are offered according to the law),
  9. then he has said, “check this out,, I have come through to do your will.” He takes away the first, that he may establish the second,
 10. by which will we have been sanctified through the giving to God of the body of Jesus the huge set apart once for all.
 11. Every priest facts stands day by day serving and a lot giving to God the same sacrifices, which can never grab away sins,
 12. but he, when he had offered one giving it up for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God;
 13. from that time waiting until his enemies are made the footstool of his feet.
 14. For by one giving to God he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified.
 15. The set apart Spirit also testifies to us, for after saying,
 16. “This is the God's promise that I will create with them: ‘After those days,’ says the boss, ‘I will put my laws on their heart, I will also write them on their mind;’” then he says,
 17. “I will remember their sins and their iniquities no more.”
 18. now where remission of these is, there is no more giving to God for messing up.
 19. Having so basically, brothers, boldness to enter into the set apart place by the blood of Jesus,
 20. by the way which he dedicated for us, a new and living way, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
 21. and having a major priest over the house of God,
 22. let’s draw near with a true heart in fullness of trusting the process, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and having our body washed with pure water,
 23. let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering; for he who promised is faithful.
 24. Let us consider how to provoke one another to show love and fire works,
 25. not forsaking our own assembling together, as the custom of some is, but exhorting one another; and so much the more, as ya check it out the Day approaching.
 26. For if we messing up willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remains no more a giving it up for sins,
 27. but a certain fearful expectation of judgment, and a fierceness of fire which will devour the adversaries.
 28. A man who disregards Moses’ law dies without compassion on the word of two or three witnesses.
 29. How much worse punishment, do ya think, will he be judged worthy of, who has trodden under foot the Son of God, and has counted the blood of the God's promise with which he was sanctified an unholy thing, and has insulted the Spirit of God's show love?
 30. For we get it him who said, “Vengeance belongs to me,” says the boss, “I will repay.” Again, “the boss will judge his people.”
 31. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
 32. But remember the former days, in which, after ya were enlightened, ya endured a major struggle with sufferings;
 33. partly, being exposed to both reproaches and oppressions; and partly, becoming partakers with those who were treated so.
 34. For ya both had compassion on me in my chains, and joyfully accepted the plundering of your possessions, knowing that ya have for yourselves a better possession and an enduring one in the heavens.
 35. so basically don’t throw away your boldness, which has a major reward.
 36. For ya need endurance so that, having done the will of God, ya may receive the promise.
 37. “In a hella little while, he who comes will come through, and won't wait.
 38. But the doing what's right will live by trusting the process. If he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him.”
 39. But we aren't of those who shrink back to destruction, but of those who have trusting the process to the saving of the soul.
