# Ecclesiastes Chapter 5

  1. Guard your steps when you slide to God’s house; for to draw near to listen up is better than to hook it up the giving it up of fools, for they don’t get it that they do evil.
  2. Don’t be rash with your mouth, and don’t let your heart be hasty to utter anything before God; for God is in heaven, and you on earth. so basically let your words be not much.
  3. For as a dream comes with a multitude of cares, so a fool’s speech with a multitude of words.
  4. When you vow a vow to God, don’t defer to pay it; for he has no pleasure in fools. Pay that which you vow.
  5. It is better that you should not vow, than that you should vow and not pay.
  6. Don’t allow your mouth to show the way you into messing up. Don’t protest before the messenger that this was a mistake. Why should God be mad salty at your voice, and tear down the work of your hands?
  7. For in the multitude of dreams there are vanities, as well as in a lot words: but you must fear God.
  8. If you check it out the oppression of the broke, and the violent taking away of justice and righteousness in a district, don’t marvel at the matter: for one official is eyed by a higher one; and there are officials over them.
  9. Moreover the profit of the earth is for all. The ruler profits from the field.
 10. He who loves silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he who loves abundance, with increase: this also is vanity.
 11. When goods increase, those who eat them are increased; and what advantage is there to its owner, except to feast on them with his eyes?
 12. The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eats little or much; but the abundance of the stacked will not allow him to sleep.
 13. there is a grievous evil which I have seen under the sun: wealth kept by its owner to his harm.
 14. Those riches perish by misfortune, and if he has fathered a son, there is nothing in his hand.
 15. As he came forth from his mother’s womb, naked shall he slide again as he came, and shall grab nothing for his labor, which he may carry away in his hand.
 16. This also is a grievous evil, that in all points as he came, so shall he slide. And what profit does he have who labors for the wind?
 17. All his days he also eats in darkness, he is frustrated, and has sickness and wrath.
 18. check this out, that which I have seen to be fire and proper is for one to eat and to drink, and to enjoy fire in all his labor, in which he labors under the sun, all the days of his life which God has given him; for this is his portion.
 19. Every man also to whom God has given riches and wealth, and has given him power to eat of it, and to grab his portion, and to be hyped in his labor—this is the gift of God.
 20. For he shall not a lot reflect on the days of his life; cuz God occupies him with the joy of his heart.
