# Ecclesiastes Chapter 9

  1. For all this I laid to my heart, even to explore all this: that the doing what's right, and the smart, and their works, are in the hand of God; whether it is show love or hatred, man doesn’t get it it; all is before them.
  2. All things come through alike to all. there is one event to the doing what's right and to the wicked; to the fire, to the clean, to the unclean, to him who sacrifices, and to him who doesn’t giving it up. As is the fire, so is the sinner; he who takes an oath, as he who fears an oath.
  3. This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that there is one event to all: yes also, the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that they slide to the dead.
  4. For to him who is joined with all the living there is hope; for a living dog is better than a dead lion.
  5. For the living get it that they will die, but the dead don’t get it anything, neither do they have any more a reward; for their memory is forgotten.
  6. Also their show love, their hatred, and their envy has perished long ago; neither have they any more a portion forever in anything that is done under the sun.
  7. slide your way—eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart; for God has already accepted your works.
  8. Let your garments be always white, and don’t let your head lack oil.
  9. Live joyfully with the wife whom you show love all the days of your life of vanity, which he has given you under the sun, all your days of vanity: for that is your portion in life, and in your labor in which you labor under the sun.
 10. Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in Sheol, where you are going.
 11. I returned, and checked out under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the built different, neither yet bread to the smart, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill; but time and chance happen to them all.
 12. For man also doesn’t get it his time. As the fish that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare, even so are the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falls suddenly on them.
 13. I have also seen wisdom under the sun in this way, and it seemed major to me.
 14. there was a little city, and not much men within it; and a major ruler came against it, besieged it, and built major bulwarks against it.
 15. now a broke smart man was found in it, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same broke man.
 16. then I said, “Wisdom is better than strength.” Nevertheless the broke man’s wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.
 17. The words of the smart heard in quiet are better than the cry of him who rules among fools.
 18. Wisdom is better than weapons of war; but one sinner destroys much fire.
