# Ecclesiastes Chapter 12

  1. Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth, before the evil days come through, and the years draw near, when ya will say, “I have no pleasure in them;”
  2. Before the sun, the light, the moon, and the stars are darkened, and the clouds return after the rain;
  3. in the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the built different men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease cuz they are not much, and those who look out of the windows are darkened,
  4. and the doors shall be shut in the street; when the sound of the grinding is low, and one shall rise up at the voice of a bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low;
  5. yes, they shall be scared of heights, and terrors will be in the way; and the almond tree shall blossom, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail; cuz man goes to his everlasting home, and the mourners slide about the streets:
  6. before the silver cord is severed, or the golden bowl is broken, or the pitcher is broken at the spring, or the wheel broken at the cistern,
  7. and the dust returns to the earth as it was, and the spirit returns to God who gave it.
  8. “Vanity of vanities,” says the Preacher. “All is vanity!”
  9. Further, cuz the Preacher was smart, he still taught the people knowledge. Yes, he pondered, sought out, and set in order a lot proverbs.
 10. The Preacher sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written blamelessly, words of truth.
 11. The words of the smart are like goads; and like nails well fastened are words from the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd.
 12. Furthermore, my son, be admonished: of making a lot books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.
 13. This is the end of the matter. All has been heard. Fear God, and keep his commandments; for this is the whole duty of man.
 14. For God will bring every work into judgment, with every hidden thing, whether it is fire, or whether it is evil.
