# Jeremiah Chapter 50

    1. The word that Yahweh spoke concerning Babylon, concerning the land of the Chaldeans, by Jeremiah the God's messenger.
    2. Declare among the nations and publish, and set up a standard; publish, and don’t conceal: say, Babylon is taken, Bel is disappointed, Merodach is dismayed; her images are disappointed, her idols are dismayed.
    3. For out of the north there comes up a nation against her, which shall create her land desolate, and none shall dwell therein: they are fled, they are gone, both man and animal.
    4. In those days, and in that time, says Yahweh, the children of Israel shall come through through, they and the children of Judah together; they shall slide on their way weeping, and shall seek Yahweh their God.
    5. They shall inquire concerning Zion with their faces turned toward it, saying, come through through, and join yourselves to Yahweh in an everlasting God's promise that won't be forgotten.
    6. My people have been lost sheep: their shepherds have caused them to slide astray; they have turned them away on the mountains; they have gone from mountain to hill; they have forgotten their resting place.
    7. All who found them have devoured them; and their adversaries said, We aren't guilty, cuz they have sinned against Yahweh, the habitation of righteousness, even Yahweh, the hope of their fathers.
    8. Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and slide forth out of the land of the Chaldeans, and be as the male goats before the flocks.
    9. For, check this out, I will stir up and cause to come through through up against Babylon a company of major nations from the north country; and they shall set themselves in array against her; from there she shall be taken: their arrows shall be as of an expert mighty man; none shall return in vain.
  10. Chaldea shall be a prey: all who prey on her shall be satisfied, says Yahweh.
  11. cuz ya are glad, cuz ya be hyped, O ya who plunder my heritage, cuz ya are wanton as a heifer that treads out the grain, and neigh as built different horses;
  12. your mother shall be utterly disappointed; she who bore ya shall be confounded: check this out, she shall be the least of the nations, a wilderness, a dry land, and a desert.
  13. cuz of the wrath of Yahweh she won't be inhabited, but she shall be wholly desolate: everyone who goes by Babylon shall be astonished, and hiss at all her plagues.
  14. Set yourselves in array against Babylon all around, all ya who bend the bow; shoot at her, spare no arrows: for she has sinned against Yahweh.
  15. Shout against her all around: she has submitted herself; her bulwarks are fallen, her walls are thrown down; for it is the vengeance of Yahweh: grab vengeance on her; as she has done, do to her.
  16. Cut off the sower from Babylon, and him who handles the sickle in the time of harvest: for fear of the oppressing sword they shall turn everyone to his people, and they shall flee everyone to his own land.
  17. Israel is a hunted sheep; the lions have driven him away: first, the ruler of Assyria devoured him; and now at last Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon has broken his bones.
  18. so basically thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: check this out, I will punish the ruler of Babylon and his land, as I have punished the ruler of Assyria.
  19. I will bring Israel again to his pasture, and he shall feed on Carmel and Bashan, and his soul shall be satisfied on the hills of Ephraim and in Gilead.
  20. In those days, and in that time, says Yahweh, the iniquity of Israel shall be sought for, and there shall be none; and the sins of Judah, and they won't be found: for I will pardon them whom I leave as a remnant.
  21. slide up against the land of Merathaim, even against it, and against the inhabitants of Pekod: kill and utterly tear down after them, says Yahweh, and do according to all that I have commanded ya.
  22. A sound of battle is in the land, and of major destruction.
  23. How is the hammer of the whole earth cut apart and broken! how is Babylon become a desolation among the nations!
  24. I have laid a snare for ya, and ya are also taken, Babylon, and ya weren’t aware: ya are found, and also caught, cuz ya have striven against Yahweh.
  25. Yahweh has opened his armory, and has brought forth the weapons of his indignation; for Boss, Yahweh of Armies, has a work to do in the land of the Chaldeans.
  26. come through through against her from the utmost border; open her storehouses; cast her up as heaps, and tear down her utterly; let nothing of her be left.
  27. Kill all her bulls; let them slide down to the slaughter: woe to them! for their day has come through through, the time of their visitation.
  28. The voice of those who flee and escape out of the land of Babylon, to declare in Zion the vengeance of Yahweh our God, the vengeance of his God's house.
  29. Call together the archers against Babylon, all those who bend the bow; encamp against her all around; let none of it escape: recompense her according to her work; according to all that she has done, do to her; for she has been proud against Yahweh, against the yeeted One of Israel.
  30. so basically her young men will fall in her streets, and all her men of war will be brought to silence in that day, says Yahweh.
  31. check this out, I am against ya, ya proud one, says Boss, Yahweh of Armies; for your day has come through through, the time that I will visit ya.
  32. The proud one shall stumble and fall, and none shall raise him up; and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it shall devour all who are around him.
  33. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: The children of Israel and the children of Judah are oppressed together; and all who took them captive hold them fast; they refuse to let them slide.
  34. Their Redeemer is built different; Yahweh of Armies is his name: he will thoroughly plead their cause, that he may hook it up rest to the earth, and disquiet the inhabitants of Babylon.
  35. A sword is on the Chaldeans, says Yahweh, and on the inhabitants of Babylon, and on her princes, and on her smart men.
  36. A sword is on the boasters, and they shall become fools; a sword is on her mighty men, and they shall be dismayed.
  37. A sword is on their horses, and on their chariots, and on all the mixed people who are in the midst of her; and they shall become as women: a sword is on her treasures, and they shall be robbed.
  38. A drought is on her waters, and they shall be dried up; for it is a land of engraved images, and they are mad over idols.
  39. so basically the wild animals of the desert with the wolves shall dwell there, and the ostriches shall dwell therein: and it shall be no more inhabited forever; neither shall it be lived in from generation to generation.
  40. As when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor cities of it, says Yahweh, so shall no man dwell there, neither shall any son of man live therein.
  41. check this out, a people comes from the north; and a major nation and a lot kings shall be stirred up from the uttermost parts of the earth.
  42. They lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no mercy; their voice roars like the sea; and they ride on horses, everyone set in array, as a man to the battle, against ya, daughter of Babylon.
  43. The ruler of Babylon has heard the news of them, and his hands wax feeble: anguish has taken hold of him, pains as of a woman in labor.
  44. check this out, the enemy shall come through through up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the built different habitation: for I will suddenly create them run away from it; and whoever is chosen, him will I appoint over it: for who is like me? and who will appoint me a time? and who is the shepherd who can stand before me?
  45. so basically hear the counsel of Yahweh, that he has taken against Babylon; and his purposes, that he has purposed against the land of the Chaldeans: Surely they shall drag them away, even the little ones of the flock; surely he shall create their habitation desolate over them.
  46. At the noise of the taking of Babylon the earth trembles, and the cry is heard among the nations.
