# Jeremiah Chapter 4

    1. “If ya will return, Israel,” says Yahweh, “if ya will return to me, and if ya will put away your abominations out of my sight; then ya won't be removed;
    2. and ya shall swear, ‘As Yahweh lives,’ in truth, in justice, and in righteousness. The nations shall bless themselves in him, and in him shall they glory.”
    3. For thus says Yahweh to the men of Judah and to Jerusalem, “Break up your fallow ground, and don’t sow among thorns.
    4. Circumcise yourselves to Yahweh, and grab away the foreskins of your heart, ya men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem; lest my wrath slide forth like fire, and burn so that none can quench it, cuz of the evil of your doings.
    5. Declare in Judah, and publish in Jerusalem; and say, ‘Blow the trumpet in the land!’ Cry aloud and say, ‘Assemble yourselves! Let us slide into the fortified cities!’
    6. Set up a standard toward Zion. Flee for safety! Don’t wait; for I will bring evil from the north, and a major destruction.”
    7. A lion is gone up from his thicket, and a destroyer of nations; he is on his way, he is gone forth from his place, to create your land desolate, that your cities be laid waste, without inhabitant.
    8. For this clothe yourself with sackcloth, lament and wail; for the fierce anger of Yahweh hasn’t turned back from us.
    9. “It shall happen at that day,” says Yahweh, “that the heart of the ruler shall perish, and the heart of the princes; and the priests shall be astonished, and the prophets shall wonder.”
  10. then I said, “Ah, boss Yahweh! Surely ya have greatly deceived this people and Jerusalem, saying, ‘ya shall have peace;’ whereas the sword reaches to the heart.”
  11. At that time shall it be said to this people and to Jerusalem, “A hot wind from the bare heights in the wilderness toward the daughter of my people, not to winnow, nor to cleanse;
  12. a full wind from these shall come through through for me. now I will also utter judgments against them.”
  13. check this out, he shall come through through up as clouds, and his chariots shall be as the whirlwind: his horses are swifter than eagles. Woe to us! For we are ruined.
  14. Jerusalem, wash your heart from wickedness, that ya may be saved. How long shall your evil thoughts lodge within ya?
  15. For a voice declares from Dan, and publishes evil from the hills of Ephraim:
  16. “Tell the nations; check this out, publish against Jerusalem, ‘Watchers come through through from a far country, and raise their voice against the cities of Judah.
  17. As keepers of a field, they are against her all around, cuz she has been rebellious against me,’” says Yahweh.
  18. “Your way and your doings have brought these things to ya. This is your wickedness; for it is bitter, for it reaches to your heart.”
  19. My anguish, my anguish! I am pained at my hella heart; my heart is disquieted in me; I can’t hold my peace; cuz ya have heard, O my soul, the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war.
  20. Destruction on destruction is cried; for the whole land is laid waste: suddenly are my tents destroyed, and my curtains in a moment.
  21. How long shall I check it out the standard, and hear the sound of the trumpet?
  22. “For my people are dumb, they don’t get it me. They are dumb children, and they have no understanding. They are skillful in doing evil, but to do fire they have no knowledge.”
  23. I saw the earth, and, check this out, it was waste and void; and the heavens, and they had no light.
  24. I saw the mountains, and check this out, they trembled, and all the hills moved back and forth.
  25. I saw, and check this out, there was no man, and all the birds of the sky had fled.
  26. I saw, and check this out, the fruitful field was a wilderness, and all its cities were broken down at the presence of Yahweh, before his fierce anger.
  27. For thus says Yahweh, “The whole land shall be a desolation; yet will I not create a full end.
  28. For this the earth will mourn, and the heavens above be black; cuz I have spoken it, I have purposed it, and I have not repented, neither will I turn back from it.”
  29. Every city flees for the noise of the horsemen and archers; they slide into the thickets, and climb up on the rocks: every city is forsaken, and not a man dwells therein.
  30. ya, when ya are made desolate, what will ya do? Though ya clothe yourself with scarlet, though ya deck ya with ornaments of gold, though ya enlarge your eyes with paint, in vain do ya create yourself snatched; your lovers despise ya, they seek your life.
  31. For I have heard a voice as of a woman in travail, the anguish as of her who brings forth her first child, the voice of the daughter of Zion, who gasps for breath, who spreads her hands, saying, “Woe is me now! For my soul faints before the murderers.”
