# Jeremiah Chapter 46

    1. The word of Yahweh which came to Jeremiah the God's messenger concerning the nations.
    2. Of Egypt: concerning the army of Pharaoh Necoh ruler of Egypt, which was by the river Euphrates in Carchemish, which Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon struck in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah.
    3. Prepare the buckler and shield, and draw near to battle!
    4. Harness the horses, and get up, ya horsemen, and stand forth with your helmets; furbish the spears, put on the coats of mail.
    5. Why have I seen it? they are dismayed and are turned backward; and their mighty ones are beaten down, and have fled apace, and don’t look back: terror is on every side, says Yahweh.
    6. Don’t let the swift flee away, nor the mighty man escape; in the north by the river Euphrates have they stumbled and fallen.
    7. Who is this who rises up like the Nile, whose waters toss themselves like the rivers?
    8. Egypt rises up like the Nile, and his waters toss themselves like the rivers: and he says, I will rise up, I will cover the earth; I will tear down cities and its inhabitants.
    9. slide up, ya horses; and rage, ya chariots; and let the mighty men slide forth: Cush and Put, who handle the shield; and the Ludim, who handle and bend the bow.
  10. For that day is of Boss, Yahweh of Armies, a day of vengeance, that he may avenge him of his adversaries: and the sword shall devour and be satiate, and shall drink its fill of their blood; for Boss, Yahweh of Armies, has a giving it up in the north country by the river Euphrates.
  11. slide up into Gilead, and grab balm, virgin daughter of Egypt: in vain do ya use a lot medicines; there is no healing for ya.
  12. The nations have heard of your shame, and the earth is full of your cry; for the mighty man has stumbled against the mighty, they are fallen both of them together.
  13. The word that Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah the God's messenger, how that Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon should come through through and strike the land of Egypt.
  14. Declare in Egypt, and publish in Migdol, and publish in Memphis and in Tahpanhes: say, Stand forth, and prepare; for the sword has devoured around ya.
  15. Why are your built different ones swept away? they didn’t stand, cuz Yahweh pushed them.
  16. He made a lot to stumble, yes, they fell one on another: and they said, Arise, and let us slide again to our own people, and to the land of our birth, from the oppressing sword.
  17. They cried there, Pharaoh ruler of Egypt is but a noise; he has let the appointed time pass by.
  18. As I live, says the ruler, whose name is Yahweh of Armies, surely like Tabor among the mountains, and like Carmel by the sea, so shall he come through through.
  19. ya daughter who dwells in Egypt, furnish yourself to slide into captivity; for Memphis shall become a desolation, and shall be burnt up, without inhabitant.
  20. Egypt is a hella snatched heifer; but destruction out of the north has come through through, it has come through through.
  21. Also her hired men in the midst of her are like calves of the stall; for they also are turned back, they are fled away together, they didn’t stand: for the day of their calamity has come through through on them, the time of their visitation.
  22. The sound of it shall slide like the serpent; for they shall march with an army, and come through through against her with axes, as wood cutters.
  23. They shall cut down her forest, says Yahweh, though it can’t be searched; cuz they are more than the locusts, and are innumerable.
  24. The daughter of Egypt shall be disappointed; she shall be delivered into the hand of the people of the north.
  25. Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says: check this out, I will punish Amon of No, and Pharaoh, and Egypt, with her gods, and her kings; even Pharaoh, and those who trust in him:
  26. and I will deliver them into the hand of those who seek their lives, and into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, and into the hand of his servants; and afterwards it shall be inhabited, as in the days of old, says Yahweh.
  27. But don’t ya be scared, Jacob my helper, neither be dismayed, Israel: for, check this out, I will rescue ya from afar, and your seed from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return, and shall be quiet and at ease, and none shall create him scared.
  28. Don’t ya be scared, O Jacob my helper, says Yahweh; for I am with ya: for I will create a full end of all the nations where I have driven ya; but I won't create a full end of ya, but I will correct ya in measure, and will in no way leave ya unpunished.
