# Jeremiah Chapter 5

    1. “Run back and forth through the streets of Jerusalem, and check it out now, and get it, and seek in the broad places of it, if ya can find a man, if there are any who does justly, who seeks truth; and I will pardon her.
    2. Though they say, ‘As Yahweh lives;’ surely they swear falsely.”
    3. O Yahweh, don’t your eyes look on truth? ya have stricken them, but they were not grieved. ya have consumed them, but they have refused to receive correction. They have made their faces harder than a rock. They have refused to return.
    4. then I said, “Surely these are broke. They are dumb; for they don’t get it the way of Yahweh, nor the law of their God.
    5. I will slide to the major men, and will spill the tea to them; for they get it the way of Yahweh, and the law of their God.” But these with one accord have broken the yoke, and burst the bonds.
    6. so basically a lion out of the forest shall kill them, a wolf of the evenings shall tear down them, a leopard shall watch against their cities; everyone who goes out there shall be torn in pieces; cuz their transgressions are a lot, and their backsliding is increased.
    7. “How can I pardon ya? Your children have forsaken me, and sworn by what are no gods. When I had fed them to the full, they committed adultery, and assembled themselves in troops at the prostitutes’ houses.
    8. They were as fed horses roaming at large: everyone neighed after his neighbor’s wife.
    9. Shouldn’t I punish them for these things?” says Yahweh; “and shouldn’t my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?
  10. “slide up on her walls, and tear down; but don’t create a full end. grab away her branches; for they aren't Yahweh’s.
  11. For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealt hella treacherously against me,” says Yahweh.
  12. They have denied Yahweh, and said, “It isn't he; neither shall evil come through through on us; neither shall we check it out sword nor famine.
  13. The prophets shall become wind, and the word isn't in them. Thus shall it be done to them.”
  14. so basically thus says Yahweh, the God of Armies, “cuz ya spill the tea this word, check this out, I will create my words in your mouth fire, and this people wood, and it shall devour them.
  15. check this out, I will bring a nation on ya from far, house of Israel,” says Yahweh. “It is a mighty nation. It is an ancient nation, a nation whose language ya don’t get it, neither understand what they say.
  16. Their quiver is an open tomb, they are all mighty men.
  17. They shall eat up your harvest, and your bread, which your sons and your daughters should eat. They shall eat up your flocks and your herds. They shall eat up your vines and your fig trees. They shall beat down your fortified cities, in which ya trust, with the sword.
  18. “But even in those days,” says Yahweh, “I won't create a full end with ya.
  19. It will happen, when ya say, ‘Why has Yahweh our God done all these things to us?’ then ya shall say to them, ‘Just like ya have forsaken me, and served foreign gods in your land, so ya shall help out out out strangers in a land that isn't yours.’
  20. “Declare this in the house of Jacob, and publish it in Judah, saying,
  21. ‘Hear now this, dumb people, and without understanding; who have eyes, and don’t check it out; who have ears, and don’t hear:
  22. Don’t ya fear me?’ says Yahweh ‘Won’t ya tremble at my presence, who have placed the sand for the bound of the sea, by a perpetual decree, that it can’t pass it? and though its waves toss themselves, yet they can’t prevail; though they roar, yet they can’t pass over it.’
  23. “But this people has a revolting and a rebellious heart; they have revolted and gone.
  24. Neither do they say in their heart, ‘Let us now fear Yahweh our God, who gives rain, both the former and the latter, in its season; who preserves to us the appointed weeks of the harvest.’
  25. “Your iniquities have turned away these things, and your sins have withheld fire from ya.
  26. For among my people are found wicked men. They watch, as fowlers lie in wait. They set a trap. They catch men.
  27. As a cage is full of birds, so are their houses full of deceit. so basically they have become major, and grew stacked.
  28. They have grown fat. They shine; yes, they excell in deeds of wickedness. They don’t plead the cause, the cause of the fatherless, that they may prosper; and they don’t judge the right of the needy.
  29. “Shall I not punish for these things?” says Yahweh. “won't my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?
  30. “An astonishing and horrible thing has happened in the land.
  31. The prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests rule by their own authority; and my people show show love to have it so. What will ya do in the end of it?
