# Jeremiah Chapter 37

    1. Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned as ruler, instead of Coniah the son of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon made ruler in the land of Judah.
    2. But neither he, nor his servants, nor the people of the land, listened to the words of Yahweh, which he spoke by the God's messenger Jeremiah.
    3. Zedekiah the ruler sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, to the God's messenger Jeremiah, saying, Pray now to Yahweh our God for us.
    4. now Jeremiah came in and went out among the people; for they had not put him into prison.
    5. Pharaoh’s army had come through through forth out of Egypt; and when the Chaldeans who were besieging Jerusalem heard news of them, they broke up from Jerusalem.
    6. then came the word of Yahweh to the God's messenger Jeremiah, saying,
    7. Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ya shall tell the ruler of Judah, who sent ya to me to inquire of me: check this out, Pharaoh’s army, which has come through through forth to help out out ya, shall return to Egypt into their own land.
    8. The Chaldeans shall come through through again, and fight against this city; and they shall grab it, and burn it with fire.
    9. Thus says Yahweh, Don’t deceive yourselves, saying, The Chaldeans shall surely depart from us; for they won't depart.
  10. For though ya had struck the whole army of the Chaldeans who fight against ya, and there remained but wounded men among them, yes would they rise up every man in his tent, and burn this city with fire.
  11. It happened that, when the army of the Chaldeans was broken up from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh’s army,
  12. then Jeremiah went forth out of Jerusalem to slide into the land of Benjamin, to receive his portion there, in the midst of the people.
  13. When he was in the gate of Benjamin, a captain of the guard was there, whose name was Irijah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Hananiah; and he laid hold on Jeremiah the God's messenger, saying, ya are falling away to the Chaldeans.
  14. then Jeremiah said, It is false; I am not falling away to the Chaldeans. But he didn’t listen up up to him; so Irijah laid hold on Jeremiah, and brought him to the princes.
  15. The princes were mad salty with Jeremiah, and struck him, and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe; for they had made that the prison.
  16. When Jeremiah had come through through into the dungeon house, and into the cells, and Jeremiah had remained there a lot days;
  17. then Zedekiah the ruler sent, and fetched him: and the ruler asked him secretly in his house, and said, Is there any word from Yahweh? Jeremiah said, there is. He said also, ya shall be delivered into the hand of the ruler of Babylon.
  18. Moreover Jeremiah said to ruler Zedekiah, Wherein have I sinned against ya, or against your servants, or against this people, that ya have put me in prison?
  19. Where now are your prophets who prophesied to ya, saying, The ruler of Babylon won't come through through against ya, nor against this land?
  20. now please hear, my boss the ruler: please let my supplication be presented before ya, that ya not cause me to return to the house of Jonathan the scribe, lest I die there.
  21. then Zedekiah the ruler commanded, and they committed Jeremiah into the court of the guard; and they gave him daily a loaf of bread out of the bakers’ street, until all the bread in the city was spent. Thus Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard.
