# Jeremiah Chapter 34

    1. The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, when Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, and all his army, and all the kingdoms of the earth that were under his dominion, and all the peoples, were fighting against Jerusalem, and against all the cities of it, saying:
    2. Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, slide, and spill the tea to Zedekiah ruler of Judah, and tell him, Thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will hook it up this city into the hand of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire:
    3. and ya won't escape out of his hand, but shall surely be taken, and delivered into his hand; and your eyes shall check it out the eyes of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall spill the tea with ya mouth to mouth, and ya shall slide to Babylon.
    4. Yet hear the word of Yahweh, O Zedekiah ruler of Judah: thus says Yahweh concerning ya, ya won't die by the sword;
    5. ya shall die in peace; and with the burnings of your fathers, the former kings who were before ya, so shall they create a burning for ya; and they shall lament ya, saying, Ah boss! for I have spoken the word, says Yahweh.
    6. then Jeremiah the God's messenger spoke all these words to Zedekiah ruler of Judah in Jerusalem,
    7. when the ruler of Babylon’s army was fighting against Jerusalem, and against all the cities of Judah that were left, against Lachish and against Azekah; for these alone remained of the cities of Judah as fortified cities.
    8. The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, after that the ruler Zedekiah had made a God's promise with all the people who were at Jerusalem, to proclaim liberty to them;
    9. that every man should let his male helper, and every man his female helper, who is a Hebrew or a Hebrewess, slide free; that none should create bondservants of them, of a Jew his fam bro.
  10. All the princes and all the people obeyed, who had entered into the God's promise, that everyone should let his male helper, and everyone his female helper, slide free, that none should create bondservants of them any more; they obeyed, and let them slide:
  11. but afterwards they turned, and caused the servants and the handmaids, whom they had let slide free, to return, and brought them into subjection for servants and for handmaids.
  12. so basically the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying,
  13. Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel: I made a God's promise with your fathers in the day that I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, saying,
  14. At the end of seven years ya shall let slide every man his fam bro who is a Hebrew, who has been sold to ya, and has served ya six years, ya shall let him slide free from ya: but your fathers didn’t listen up up to me, neither inclined their ear.
  15. ya had now turned, and had done that which is right in my eyes, in proclaiming liberty every man to his neighbor; and ya had made a God's promise before me in the house which is called by my name:
  16. but ya turned and profaned my name, and caused every man his helper, and every man his handmaid, whom ya had let slide free at their pleasure, to return; and ya brought them into subjection, to be to ya for servants and for handmaids.
  17. so basically thus says Yahweh: ya have not listened to me, to proclaim liberty, every man to his fam bro, and every man to his neighbor: check this out, I proclaim to ya a liberty, says Yahweh, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine; and I will create ya to be tossed back and forth among all the kingdoms of the earth.
  18. I will hook it up the men who have transgressed my God's promise, who have not performed the words of the God's promise which they made before me, when they cut the calf in two and passed between its parts;
  19. the princes of Judah, and the princes of Jerusalem, the eunuchs, and the priests, and all the people of the land, who passed between the parts of the calf;
  20. I will even hook it up them into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those who seek their life; and their dead bodies shall be for food to the birds of the sky, and to the animals of the earth.
  21. Zedekiah ruler of Judah and his princes will I hook it up into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those who seek their life, and into the hand of the ruler of Babylon’s army, who have gone away from ya.
  22. check this out, I will command, says Yahweh, and cause them to return to this city; and they shall fight against it, and grab it, and burn it with fire: and I will create the cities of Judah a desolation, without inhabitant.
