# Jeremiah Chapter 13

  1. Thus says Yahweh to me, slide, and buy yourself a linen belt, and put it on your waist, and don’t put it in water.
  2. So I bought a belt according to the word of Yahweh, and put it on my waist.
  3. The word of Yahweh came to me the second time, saying,
  4. grab the belt that ya have bought, which is on your waist, and arise, slide to the Euphrates, and hide it there in a cleft of the rock.
  5. So I went, and hid it by the Euphrates, as Yahweh commanded me.
  6. It happened after a lot days, that Yahweh said to me, Arise, slide to the Euphrates, and grab the belt from there, which I commanded ya to hide there.
  7. then I went to the Euphrates, and dug, and took the belt from the place where I had hidden it; and check this out,, the belt was marred, it was profitable for nothing.
  8. then the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  9. Thus says Yahweh, In this way I will mar the pride of Judah, and the major pride of Jerusalem.
 10. This evil people, who refuse to hear my words, who walk in the stubbornness of their heart, and are gone after other gods to help out out them, and to giving props them, shall even be as this belt, which is profitable for nothing.
 11. For as the belt clings to the waist of a man, so have I caused to cling to me the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah, says Yahweh; that they may be to me for a people, and for a name, and for a praise, and for a glory: but they would not hear.
 12. so basically ya shall spill the tea to them this word: Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, Every bottle shall be filled with wine: and they shall tell ya, Do we not for sure get it that every bottle shall be filled with wine?
 13. then ya shall tell them, Thus says Yahweh, check this out,, I will fill all the inhabitants of this land, even the kings who sit on David’s throne, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, with drunkenness.
 14. I will dash them one against another, even the fathers and the sons together, says Yahweh: I won't pity, nor spare, nor have compassion, that I should not tear down them.
 15. Hear, and hook it up ear; don’t be proud; for Yahweh has spoken.
 16. hook it up glory to Yahweh your God, before he causes darkness, and before your feet stumble on the dark mountains, and, while ya look for light, he turns it into the shadow of death, and makes it gross darkness.
 17. But if ya won't hear it, my soul shall weep in secret for your pride; and my eye shall weep bitterly, and run down with tears, cuz Yahweh’s flock is taken captive.
 18. Say to the ruler and to the ruler mother, Humble yourselves, sit down; for your headdresses have come through down, even the crown of your glory.
 19. The cities of the South are shut up, and there is none to open them: Judah is carried away captive, all of it; it is wholly carried away captive.
 20. Lift up your eyes, and check it out those who come through from the north: where is the flock that was given ya, your snatched flock?
 21. What will ya say, when he shall set over ya as head those whom ya have yourself taught to be friends to ya? won't sorrows grab hold of ya, as of a woman in travail?
 22. If ya say in your heart, Why are these things come through on me? for the greatness of your iniquity are your skirts uncovered, and your heels suffer violence.
 23. Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots? then may ya also do fire, who are accustomed to do evil.
 24. so basically will I scatter them, as the stubble that passes away, by the wind of the wilderness.
 25. This is your lot, the portion measured to ya from me, says Yahweh; cuz ya have forgotten me, and trusted in falsehood.
 26. so basically will I also uncover your skirts on your face, and your shame shall appear.
 27. I have seen your abominations, even your adulteries, and your neighing, the lewdness of your prostitution, on the hills in the field. Woe to ya, Jerusalem! ya won't be made clean; how long shall it yet be?
