# Jeremiah Chapter 3

    1. “They say, ‘If a man puts away his wife, and she goes from him, and become another man’s, will he return to her again?’ Wouldn’t that land be greatly polluted? But ya have played the prostitute with a lot lovers; yet return again to me,” says Yahweh.
    2. “Lift up your eyes to the bare heights, and check it out! Where have ya not been lain with? ya have sat for them by the ways, as an Arabian in the wilderness. ya have polluted the land with your prostitution and with your wickedness.
    3. so basically the showers have been withheld, and there has been no latter rain; yet ya have a prostitute’s forehead, ya refused to be ashamed.
    4. Will ya not from this time cry to me, ‘My Father, ya are the guide of my youth?’
    5. “‘Will he retain his anger forever? Will he keep it to the end?’ check this out, ya have spoken and have done evil things, and have had your way.”
    6. Moreover, Yahweh said to me in the days of Josiah the ruler, “Have ya seen that which backsliding Israel has done? She has gone up on every high mountain and under every green tree, and there has played the prostitute.
    7. I said after she had done all these things, ‘She will return to me;’ but she didn’t return; and her treacherous sister Judah saw it.
    8. I saw, when, for this hella cause that backsliding Israel had committed adultery, I had put her away and given her a bill of divorce, yet treacherous Judah, her sister, didn’t fear; but she also went and played the prostitute.
    9. It happened through the lightness of her prostitution, that the land was polluted, and she committed adultery with stones and with stocks.
  10. Yet for all this her treacherous sister, Judah, has not returned to me with her whole heart, but only in pretense,” says Yahweh.
  11. Yahweh said to me, “Backsliding Israel has shown herself more doing what's right than treacherous Judah.
  12. slide, and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, ‘Return, ya backsliding Israel,’ says Yahweh; ‘I won't look in anger on ya; for I am merciful,’ says Yahweh. ‘I won't keep anger forever.
  13. Only acknowledge your iniquity, that ya have transgressed against Yahweh your God, and have scattered your ways to the strangers under every green tree, and ya have not obeyed my voice,’ says Yahweh.”
  14. “Return, backsliding children,” says Yahweh; “for I am a husband to ya. I will grab ya one of a city, and two of a family, and I will bring ya to Zion.
  15. I will hook it up ya shepherds according to my heart, who shall feed ya with knowledge and understanding.
  16. It shall come through through to pass, when ya are multiplied and increased in the land, in those days,” says Yahweh, “they shall say no more, ‘The ark of the God's promise of Yahweh!’ neither shall it come through through to mind; neither shall they remember it; neither shall they miss it; neither shall it be made any more.
  17. At that time they shall call Jerusalem ‘The throne of Yahweh;’ and all the nations shall be gathered to it, to the name of Yahweh, to Jerusalem. Neither shall they walk any more after the stubbornness of their evil heart.
  18. In those days the house of Judah shall walk with the house of Israel, and they shall come through through together out of the land of the north to the land that I gave for an inheritance to your fathers.
  19. “But I said, ‘How I would put ya among the children, and hook it up ya a pleasant land, a goodly heritage of the armies of the nations!’ and I said, ‘ya shall call me “My Father,” and won't turn away from following me.’
  20. “Surely as a wife treacherously departs from her husband, so ya have dealt treacherously with me, house of Israel,” says Yahweh.
  21. A voice is heard on the bare heights, the weeping and the petitions of the children of Israel; cuz they have perverted their way, they have forgotten Yahweh their God.
  22. Return, ya backsliding children, I will heal your backsliding. “check this out, we have come through through to ya; for ya are Yahweh our God.
  23. deadass, in vain is help out out from the hills, the tumult on the mountains. deadass, the getting saved of Israel is in Yahweh our God.
  24. But the shameful thing has devoured the labor of our fathers from our youth, their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters.
  25. Let us lie down in our shame, and let our confusion cover us; for we have sinned against Yahweh our God, we and our fathers, from our youth even to this day. We have not obeyed the voice of Yahweh our God.”
