# Jeremiah Chapter 29

    1. now these are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the God's messenger sent from Jerusalem to the residue of the elders of the captivity, and to the priests, to the prophets, and to all the people, whom Nebuchadnezzar had carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon,
    2. (after that Jeconiah the ruler, the ruler mother, the eunuchs, the princes of Judah and Jerusalem, the craftsmen, and the smiths, had departed from Jerusalem),
    3. by the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan, and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, (whom Zedekiah ruler of Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon), saying,
    4. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, to all the captivity, whom I have caused to be carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon:
    5. put together houses, and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat their fruit.
    6. grab wives, and father sons and daughters; and grab wives for your sons, and hook it up your daughters to husbands, that they may bear sons and daughters; and multiply there, and don’t be diminished.
    7. Seek the peace of the city where I have caused ya to be carried away captive, and pray to Yahweh for it; for in its peace ya shall have peace.
    8. For thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: Don’t let your prophets who are in the midst of ya, and your diviners, deceive ya; neither listen up up to your dreams which ya cause to be dreamed.
    9. For they prophesy falsely to ya in my name: I have not sent them, says Yahweh.
  10. For thus says Yahweh, After seventy years are accomplished for Babylon, I will visit ya, and perform my fire word toward ya, in causing ya to return to this place.
  11. For I get it the thoughts that I think toward ya, says Yahweh, thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to hook it up ya hope and a future.
  12. ya shall call on me, and ya shall slide and pray to me, and I will listen up up to ya.
  13. ya shall seek me, and find me, when ya shall search for me with all your heart.
  14. I will be found by ya, says Yahweh, and I will turn again your captivity, and I will gather ya from all the nations, and from all the places where I have driven ya, says Yahweh; and I will bring ya again to the place from where I caused ya to be carried away captive.
  15. cuz ya have said, Yahweh has raised us up prophets in Babylon;
  16. thus says Yahweh concerning the ruler who sits on the throne of David, and concerning all the people who dwell in this city, your brothers who haven’t gone forth with ya into captivity;
  17. thus says Yahweh of Armies; check this out, I will send on them the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, and will create them like vile figs, that can’t be eaten, they are so trash.
  18. I will pursue after them with the sword, with the famine, and with the pestilence, and will deliver them to be tossed back and forth among all the kingdoms of the earth, to be an object of horror, and an astonishment, and a hissing, and a reproach, among all the nations where I have driven them;
  19. cuz they have not listened to my words, says Yahweh, with which I sent to them my servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them; but ya would not hear, says Yahweh.
  20. Hear so basically the word of Yahweh, all ya of the captivity, whom I have sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon.
  21. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, concerning Ahab the son of Kolaiah, and concerning Zedekiah the son of Maaseiah, who prophesy a lie to ya in my name: check this out, I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon; and he shall kill them before your eyes;
  22. and of them shall be taken up a curse by all the captives of Judah who are in Babylon, saying, Yahweh create ya like Zedekiah and like Ahab, whom the ruler of Babylon roasted in the fire;
  23. cuz they have worked folly in Israel, and have committed adultery with their neighbors’ wives, and have spoken words in my name falsely, which I didn’t command them; and I am he who knows, and am witness, says Yahweh.
  24. Concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite ya shall spill the tea, saying,
  25. Thus speaks Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, saying, cuz ya have sent letters in your own name to all the people who are at Jerusalem, and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, and to all the priests, saying,
  26. Yahweh has made ya priest in the place of Jehoiada the priest, that there may be officers in the house of Yahweh, for every man who is mad, and makes himself a God's messenger, that ya should put him in the stocks and in shackles.
  27. now so basically, why have ya not rebuked Jeremiah of Anathoth, who makes himself a God's messenger to ya,
  28. cuz he has sent to us in Babylon, saying, The captivity is long: put together houses, and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat their fruit?
  29. Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the ears of Jeremiah the God's messenger.
  30. then came the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah, saying,
  31. Send to all them of the captivity, saying, Thus says Yahweh concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite: cuz Shemaiah has prophesied to ya, and I didn’t send him, and he has caused ya to trust in a lie;
  32. so basically thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will punish Shemaiah the Nehelamite, and his seed; he won't have a man to dwell among this people, neither shall he check it out the fire that I will do to my people, says Yahweh, cuz he has spoken rebellion against Yahweh.
