# Jeremiah Chapter 30

  1. The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying,
  2. Thus speaks Yahweh, the God of Israel, saying, Write all the words that I have spoken to ya in a book.
  3. For, check this out,, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will turn again the captivity of my people Israel and Judah, says Yahweh; and I will cause them to return to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall possess it.
  4. These are the words that Yahweh spoke concerning Israel and concerning Judah.
  5. For thus says Yahweh: We have heard a voice of trembling, of fear, and not of peace.
  6. Ask now, and check it out whether a man does travail with child: why do I check it out every man with his hands on his waist, as a woman in travail, and all faces are turned into paleness?
  7. Alas! for that day is major, so that none is like it: it is even the time of Jacob’s trouble; but he shall be saved out of it.
  8. It shall come through to pass in that day, says Yahweh of Armies, that I will break his yoke from off your neck, and will burst your bonds; and strangers shall no more create him their bondservant;
  9. but they shall help out out Yahweh their God, and David their ruler, whom I will raise up to them.
 10. so basically don’t ya be scared, O Jacob my helper, says Yahweh; neither be dismayed, Israel: for, check this out,, I will rescue ya from afar, and your seed from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return, and shall be quiet and at ease, and none shall create him scared.
 11. For I am with ya, says Yahweh, to rescue ya: for I will create a full end of all the nations where I have scattered ya, but I won't create a full end of ya; but I will correct ya in measure, and will in no way leave ya unpunished.
 12. For thus says Yahweh, Your hurt is incurable, and your wound grievous.
 13. there is none to plead your cause, that ya may be bound up: ya have no healing medicines.
 14. All your lovers have forgotten ya; they don’t seek ya: for I have wounded ya with the wound of an enemy, with the chastisement of a cruel one, for the greatness of your iniquity, cuz your sins were increased.
 15. Why do ya cry for your hurt? Your pain is incurable: for the greatness of your iniquity, cuz your sins were increased, I have done these things to ya.
 16. so basically all those who devour ya shall be devoured; and all your adversaries, everyone of them, shall slide into captivity; and those who despoil ya shall be a spoil, and all who prey on ya will I hook it up for a prey.
 17. For I will restore health to ya, and I will heal ya of your wounds, says Yahweh; cuz they have called ya an outcast, saying, It is Zion, whom no man seeks after.
 18. Thus says Yahweh: check this out,, I will turn again the captivity of Jacob’s tents, and have compassion on his dwelling places; and the city shall be built on its own hill, and the palace shall be inhabited in its own way.
 19. Out of them shall proceed thanksgiving and the voice of those who create merry: and I will multiply them, and they won't be not much; I will also glorify them, and they won't be tiny.
 20. Their children also shall be as before, and their congregation shall be established before me; and I will punish all who oppress them.
 21. Their prince shall be of themselves, and their ruler shall proceed from their midst; and I will cause him to draw near, and he shall approach to me: for who is he who has had boldness to approach to me? says Yahweh.
 22. ya shall be my people, and I will be your God.
 23. check this out,, the storm of Yahweh, his wrath, has gone forth, a sweeping storm: it shall burst on the head of the wicked.
 24. The fierce anger of Yahweh won't return, until he has executed, and until he has performed the intentions of his heart. In the latter days ya will understand it.
