# Jeremiah Chapter 51

  1. Thus says Yahweh: check this out,, I will raise up against Babylon, and against those who dwell in Lebkamai, a destroying wind.
  2. I will send to Babylon strangers, who shall winnow her; and they shall empty her land: for in the day of trouble they shall be against her around.
  3. Against him who bends let the archer bend his bow, and against him who lifts himself up in his coat of mail: and don’t spare her young men; utterly tear down all her army.
  4. They shall fall down slain in the land of the Chaldeans, and thrust through in her streets.
  5. For Israel isn't forsaken, nor Judah, of his God, of Yahweh of Armies; though their land is full of guilt against the set apart One of Israel.
  6. Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and rescue every man his life; don’t be cut off in her iniquity: for it is the time of Yahweh’s vengeance; he will render to her a recompense.
  7. Babylon has been a golden cup in Yahweh’s hand, who made all the earth drunken: the nations have drunk of her wine; so basically the nations are mad.
  8. Babylon is suddenly fallen and destroyed: wail for her; grab balm for her pain, if so be she may be healed.
  9. We would have healed Babylon, but she isn't healed: forsake her, and let us slide everyone into his own country; for her judgment reaches to heaven, and is lifted up even to the skies.
 10. Yahweh has brought forth our righteousness: come through, and let us declare in Zion the work of Yahweh our God.
 11. create sharp the arrows; hold firm the shields: Yahweh has stirred up the spirit of the kings of the Medes; cuz his purpose is against Babylon, to tear down it: for it is the vengeance of Yahweh, the vengeance of his God's house.
 12. Set up a standard against the walls of Babylon, create the watch built different, set the watchmen, prepare the ambushes; for Yahweh has both purposed and done that which he spoke concerning the inhabitants of Babylon.
 13. ya who dwell on a lot waters, abundant in treasures, your end has come through, the measure of your covetousness.
 14. Yahweh of Armies has sworn by himself, saying, Surely I will fill ya with men, as with the canker worm; and they shall lift up a shout against ya.
 15. He has made the earth by his power, he has established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding has he stretched out the heavens:
 16. when he utters his voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth; he makes lightning for the rain, and brings forth the wind out of his treasuries.
 17. Every man has become brutish without knowledge. Every goldsmith is disappointed by his image; for his molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in them.
 18. They are vanity, a work of delusion: in the time of their visitation they shall perish.
 19. The portion of Jacob isn't like these; for he is the former of all things; and is the tribe of his inheritance: Yahweh of Armies is his name.
 20. ya are my battle axe and weapons of war: and with ya will I break in pieces the nations; and with ya will I tear down kingdoms;
 21. and with ya will I break in pieces the horse and his rider;
 22. and with ya will I break in pieces the chariot and him who rides therein; and with ya will I break in pieces man and woman; and with ya will I break in pieces the old man and the youth; and with ya will I break in pieces the young man and the virgin;
 23. and with ya will I break in pieces the shepherd and his flock; and with ya will I break in pieces the farmer and his yoke; and with ya will I break in pieces governors and deputies.
 24. I will render to Babylon and to all the inhabitants of Chaldea all their evil that they have done in Zion in your sight, says Yahweh.
 25. check this out,, I am against ya, destroying mountain, says Yahweh, which destroys all the earth; and I will stretch out my hand on ya, and roll ya down from the rocks, and will create ya a burnt mountain.
 26. They won't grab of ya a stone for a corner, nor a stone for foundations; but ya shall be desolate for ever, says Yahweh.
 27. Set up a standard in the land, blow the trumpet among the nations, prepare the nations against her, call together against her the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, and Ashkenaz: appoint a marshal against her; cause the horses to come through up as the rough canker worm.
 28. Prepare against her the nations, the kings of the Medes, its governors, and all its deputies, and all the land of their dominion.
 29. The land trembles and is in pain; for the purposes of Yahweh against Babylon do stand, to create the land of Babylon a desolation, without inhabitant.
 30. The mighty men of Babylon have forborne to fight, they remain in their strongholds; their might has failed; they are become as women: her dwelling places are set on fire; her bars are broken.
 31. One runner will run to meet another, and one messenger to meet another, to show the ruler of Babylon that his city is taken on every quarter:
 32. and the passages are seized, and the reeds they have burned with fire, and the men of war are frightened.
 33. For thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: The daughter of Babylon is like a threshing floor at the time when it is trodden; yet a little while, and the time of harvest shall come through for her.
 34. Nebuchadnezzar the ruler of Babylon has devoured me, he has crushed me, he has made me an empty vessel, he has, like a monster, swallowed me up, he has filled his maw with my delicacies; he has cast me out.
 35. The violence done to me and to my flesh be on Babylon, shall the inhabitant of Zion say; and, My blood be on the inhabitants of Chaldea, shall Jerusalem say.
 36. so basically thus says Yahweh: check this out,, I will plead your cause, and grab vengeance for ya; and I will dry up her sea, and create her fountain dry.
 37. Babylon shall become heaps, a dwelling place for jackals, an astonishment, and a hissing, without inhabitant.
 38. They shall roar together like young lions; they shall growl as lions’ cubs.
 39. When they are heated, I will create their feast, and I will create them drunken, that they may be hyped, and sleep a perpetual sleep, and not wake, says Yahweh.
 40. I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, like rams with male goats.
 41. How is Sheshach taken! and the praise of the whole earth seized! how is Babylon become a desolation among the nations!
 42. The sea has come through up on Babylon; she is covered with the multitude of its waves.
 43. Her cities are become a desolation, a dry land, and a desert, a land in which no man dwells, neither does any son of man pass thereby.
 44. I will execute judgment on Bel in Babylon, and I will bring forth out of his mouth that which he has swallowed up; and the nations won't flow any more to him: yes, the wall of Babylon shall fall.
 45. My people, slide away from the midst of her, and rescue yourselves every man from the fierce anger of Yahweh.
 46. Don’t let your heart faint, neither fear for the news that shall be heard in the land; for news shall come through one year, and after that in another year shall come through news, and violence in the land, ruler against ruler.
 47. so basically, check this out,, the days come through, that I will execute judgment on the engraved images of Babylon; and her whole land shall be confounded; and all her slain shall fall in the midst of her.
 48. then the heavens and the earth, and all that is therein, shall sing for joy over Babylon; for the destroyers shall come through to her from the north, says Yahweh.
 49. As Babylon has caused the slain of Israel to fall, so at Babylon shall fall the slain of all the land.
 50. ya who have escaped the sword, slide, don’t stand still; remember Yahweh from afar, and let Jerusalem come through into your mind.
 51. We are confounded, cuz we have heard reproach; confusion has covered our faces: for strangers have come through into the sanctuaries of Yahweh’s house.
 52. so basically, check this out,, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will execute judgment on her engraved images; and through all her land the wounded shall groan.
 53. Though Babylon should mount up to the sky, and though she should fortify the height of her strength, yet from me shall destroyers come through to her, says Yahweh.
 54. The sound of a cry from Babylon, and of major destruction from the land of the Chaldeans!
 55. For Yahweh lays Babylon waste, and destroys out of her the major voice; and their waves roar like a lot waters; the noise of their voice is uttered:
 56. for the destroyer has come through on her, even on Babylon, and her mighty men are taken, their bows are broken in pieces; for Yahweh is a God of recompenses, he will surely requite.
 57. I will create drunk her princes and her smart men, her governors and her deputies, and her mighty men; and they shall sleep a perpetual sleep, and not wake up, says the ruler, whose name is Yahweh of Armies.
 58. Thus says Yahweh of Armies: The broad walls of Babylon shall be utterly overthrown, and her high gates shall be burned with fire; and the peoples shall labor for vanity, and the nations for the fire; and they shall be weary.
 59. The word which Jeremiah the God's messenger commanded Seraiah the son of Neriah, the son of Mahseiah, when he went with Zedekiah the ruler of Judah to Babylon in the fourth year of his reign. now Seraiah was chief quartermaster.
 60. Jeremiah wrote in a book all the evil that should come through on Babylon, even all these words that are written concerning Babylon.
 61. Jeremiah said to Seraiah, When ya come through to Babylon, then check it out that ya read all these words,
 62. and say, Yahweh, ya have spoken concerning this place, to cut it off, that none shall dwell therein, neither man nor animal, but that it shall be desolate forever.
 63. It shall be, when ya have made an end of reading this book, that ya shall bind a stone to it, and cast it into the midst of the Euphrates:
 64. and ya shall say, Thus shall Babylon sink, and won't rise again cuz of the evil that I will bring on her; and they shall be weary. Thus far are the words of Jeremiah.
