# Jeremiah Chapter 7

    1. The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying,
    2. “Stand in the gate of Yahweh’s house, and proclaim there this word, and say, ‘Hear the word of Yahweh, all ya of Judah, who enter in at these gates to giving props Yahweh.
    3. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, Amend your ways and your doings, and I will cause ya to dwell in this place.
    4. Don’t trust in lying words, saying, The God's house of Yahweh, the God's house of Yahweh, the God's house of Yahweh, are these.
    5. For if ya thoroughly amend your ways and your doings; if ya thoroughly execute justice between a man and his neighbor;
    6. if ya don’t oppress the foreigner, the fatherless, and the widow, and don’t shed innocent blood in this place, neither walk after other gods to your own hurt:
    7. then will I cause ya to dwell in this place, in the land that I gave to your fathers, from of old even forevermore.
    8. check this out, ya trust in lying words, that can’t profit.
    9. Will ya steal, murder, and commit adultery, and swear falsely, and burn incense to Baal, and walk after other gods that ya have not known,
  10. and come through through and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, We are delivered; that ya may do all these abominations?
  11. Is this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes? check this out, I, even I, have seen it, says Yahweh.
  12. But slide now to my place which was in Shiloh, where I caused my name to dwell at the first, and check it out what I did to it for the wickedness of my people Israel.
  13. now, cuz ya have done all these works, says Yahweh, and I spoke to ya, rising up early and speaking, but ya didn’t hear; and I called ya, but ya didn’t answer:
  14. so basically will I do to the house which is called by my name, in which ya trust, and to the place which I gave to ya and to your fathers, as I did to Shiloh.
  15. I will cast ya out of my sight, as I have cast out all your brothers, even the whole seed of Ephraim.
  16. so basically don’t pray for this people, neither lift up a cry nor talking to God for them, neither create intercession to me; for I won't hear ya.
  17. Don’t ya check it out what they do in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
  18. The children gather wood, and the fathers kindle the fire, and the women knead the dough, to create cakes to the ruler of the sky, and to pour out drink offerings to other gods, that they may provoke me to anger.
  19. Do they provoke me to anger? says Yahweh. Don’t they provoke themselves, to the confusion of their own faces?
  20. so basically God's like Yahweh: check this out, my anger and my wrath shall be poured out on this place, on man, and on animal, and on the trees of the field, and on the fruit of the ground; and it shall burn, and won't be quenched.
  21. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel: Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices, and eat meat.
  22. For I didn’t spill the tea to your fathers, nor command them in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, concerning burnt offerings or sacrifices:
  23. but this thing I commanded them, saying, listen up up to my voice, and I will be your God, and ya shall be my people; and walk in all the way that I command ya, that it may be well with ya.
  24. But they didn’t listen up up nor turn their ear, but walked in their own counsels and in the stubbornness of their evil heart, and went backward, and not forward.
  25. Since the day that your fathers came forth out of the land of Egypt to this day, I have sent to ya all my servants the prophets, daily rising up early and sending them:
  26. yet they didn’t listen up up to me, nor inclined their ear, but made their neck stiff: they did worse than their fathers.
  27. ya shall spill the tea all these words to them; but they won't listen up up to ya: ya shall also call to them; but they won't answer ya.
  28. ya shall tell them, This is the nation that has not listened to the voice of Yahweh their God, nor received instruction: truth is perished, and is cut off from their mouth.
  29. Cut off your hair, and throw it away, and grab up a lamentation on the bare heights; for Yahweh has rejected and forsaken the generation of his wrath.
  30. For the children of Judah have done that which is evil in my sight, says Yahweh: they have set their abominations in the house which is called by my name, to defile it.
  31. They have built the high places of Topheth, which is in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire; which I didn’t command, nor did it come through through into my mind.
  32. so basically, check this out, the days come through through, says Yahweh, that it shall no more be called Topheth, nor The valley of the son of Hinnom, but The valley of Slaughter: for they shall bury in Topheth, until there is no place to bury.
  33. The dead bodies of this people shall be food for the birds of the sky, and for the animals of the earth; and none shall frighten them away.
  34. then will I cause to cease from the cities of Judah, and from the streets of Jerusalem, the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride; for the land shall become a waste.
