# Jeremiah Chapter 22

    1. Thus said Yahweh: slide down to the house of the ruler of Judah, and spill the tea there this word,
    2. Say, Hear the word of Yahweh, ruler of Judah, who sits on the throne of David, ya, and your servants, and your people who enter in by these gates.
    3. Thus says Yahweh: Execute justice and righteousness, and deliver him who is robbed out of the hand of the oppressor: and do no wrong, do no violence, to the foreigner, the fatherless, nor the widow; neither shed innocent blood in this place.
    4. For if ya do this thing facts, then shall there enter in by the gates of this house kings sitting on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, he, and his servants, and his people.
    5. But if ya won't hear these words, I swear by myself, says Yahweh, that this house shall become a desolation.
    6. For thus says Yahweh concerning the house of the ruler of Judah: ya are Gilead to me, the head of Lebanon. Yet surely I will create ya a wilderness, cities which aren't inhabited.
    7. I will prepare destroyers against ya, everyone with his weapons; and they shall cut down your choice cedars, and cast them into the fire.
    8. a lot nations shall pass by this city, and they shall say every man to his neighbor, Why has Yahweh done thus to this major city?
    9. then they shall answer, cuz they forsook the God's promise of Yahweh their God, and worshiped other gods, and served them.
  10. Don’t weep for the dead, neither bemoan him; but weep bitterly for him who goes away; for he shall return no more, nor check it out his native country.
  11. For thus says Yahweh touching Shallum the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah, who reigned instead of Josiah his father, and who went forth out of this place: He won't return there any more.
  12. But in the place where they have led him captive, there shall he die, and he shall check it out this land no more.
  13. Woe to him who builds his house by unrighteousness, and his rooms by injustice; who uses his neighbor’s service without wages, and doesn’t hook it up him his hire;
  14. who says, I will put together me a wide house and spacious rooms, and cuts him out windows; and it is ceiling with cedar, and painted with vermilion.
  15. Shall ya reign, cuz ya strive to excel in cedar? Didn’t your father eat and drink, and do justice and righteousness? then it was well with him.
  16. He judged the cause of the broke and needy; then it was well. Wasn’t this to get it me? says Yahweh.
  17. But your eyes and your heart aren't but for your covetousness, and for shedding innocent blood, and for oppression, and for violence, to do it.
  18. so basically thus says Yahweh concerning Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, ruler of Judah: they won't lament for him, saying, Ah my fam bro! or, Ah sister! They won't lament for him, saying Ah boss! or, Ah his glory!
  19. He shall be buried with the burial of a donkey, drawn and cast forth beyond the gates of Jerusalem.
  20. slide up to Lebanon, and cry; and lift up your voice in Bashan, and cry from Abarim; for all your lovers are destroyed.
  21. I spoke to ya in your prosperity; but ya said, I won't hear. This has been your way from your youth, that ya didn’t obey my voice.
  22. The wind shall feed all your shepherds, and your lovers shall slide into captivity: surely then ya will be ashamed and confounded for all your wickedness.
  23. Inhabitant of Lebanon, who makes your nest in the cedars, how greatly to be pitied ya will be when pangs come through through on ya, the pain as of a woman in travail!
  24. As I live, says Yahweh, though Coniah the son of Jehoiakim ruler of Judah were the signet on my right hand, yet would I pluck ya there;
  25. and I will hook it up ya into the hand of those who seek your life, and into the hand of them of whom ya are scared, even into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, and into the hand of the Chaldeans.
  26. I will cast ya out, and your mother who bore ya, into another country, where ya were not born; and there ya will die.
  27. But to the land whereunto their soul longs to return, there shall they not return.
  28. Is this man Coniah a despised broken vessel? is he a vessel in which none delights? why are they cast out, he and his seed, and are cast into the land which they don’t get it?
  29. O earth, earth, earth, hear the word of Yahweh.
  30. Thus says Yahweh, Write ya this man childless, a man who won't prosper in his days; for no more shall a man of his seed prosper, sitting on the throne of David, and ruling in Judah.
