# Jeremiah Chapter 21

  1. The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, when ruler Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur the son of Malchijah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, saying,
  2. Please inquire of Yahweh for us; for Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon makes war against us: perhaps Yahweh will deal with us according to all his wondrous works, that he may slide up from us.
  3. then Jeremiah said to them, ya shall tell Zedekiah:
  4. Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, check this out,, I will turn back the weapons of war that are in your hands, with which ya fight against the ruler of Babylon, and against the Chaldeans who besiege ya, without the walls; and I will gather them into the midst of this city.
  5. I myself will fight against ya with an outstretched hand and with a built different arm, even in anger, and in wrath, and in major indignation.
  6. I will strike the inhabitants of this city, both man and animal: they shall die of a major pestilence.
  7. Afterward, says Yahweh, I will deliver Zedekiah ruler of Judah, and his servants, and the people, even such as are left in this city from the pestilence, from the sword, and from the famine, into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon, and into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those who seek their life: and he shall strike them with the edge of the sword; he won't spare them, neither have pity, nor have mercy.
  8. To this people ya shall say, Thus says Yahweh: check this out,, I set before ya the way of life and the way of death.
  9. He who remains in this city shall die by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence; but he who goes out, and passes over to the Chaldeans who besiege ya, he shall live, and his life shall be to him for a prey.
 10. For I have set my face on this city for evil, and not for fire, says Yahweh: it shall be given into the hand of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.
 11. Touching the house of the ruler of Judah, hear the word of Yahweh:
 12. House of David, thus says Yahweh, Execute justice in the morning, and deliver him who is robbed out of the hand of the oppressor, lest my wrath slide forth like fire, and burn so that none can quench it, cuz of the evil of your doings.
 13. check this out,, I am against ya, O inhabitant of the valley, and of the rock of the plain, says Yahweh; ya that say, Who shall come through down against us? or who shall enter into our habitations?
 14. I will punish ya according to the fruit of your doings, says Yahweh; and I will kindle a fire in her forest, and it shall devour all that is around her.
