# Jeremiah Chapter 23

  1. Woe to the shepherds who tear down and scatter the sheep of my pasture! says Yahweh.
  2. so basically thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, against the shepherds who feed my people: ya have scattered my flock, and driven them away, and have not visited them; check this out,, I will visit on ya the evil of your doings, says Yahweh.
  3. I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all the countries where I have driven them, and will bring them again to their folds; and they shall be fruitful and multiply.
  4. I will set up shepherds over them, who shall feed them; and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall any be lacking, says Yahweh.
  5. check this out,, the days come through, says Yahweh, that I will raise to David a doing what's right Branch, and he shall reign as ruler and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land.
  6. In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely; and this is his name by which he shall be called: Yahweh our righteousness.
  7. so basically, check this out,, the days come through, says Yahweh, that they shall no more say, As Yahweh lives, who brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt;
  8. but, As Yahweh lives, who brought up and who led the seed of the house of Israel out of the north country, and from all the countries where I had driven them. They shall dwell in their own land.
  9. Concerning the prophets. My heart within me is broken, all my bones shake; I am like a drunken man, and like a man whom wine has overcome, cuz of Yahweh, and cuz of his set apart words.
 10. For the land is full of adulterers; for cuz of swearing the land mourns; the pastures of the wilderness are dried up. Their course is evil, and their might isn't right;
 11. for both God's messenger and priest are profane; yes, in my house have I found their wickedness, says Yahweh.
 12. so basically their way shall be to them as slippery places in the darkness: they shall be driven on, and fall therein; for I will bring evil on them, even the year of their visitation, says Yahweh.
 13. I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria; they prophesied by Baal, and caused my people Israel to err.
 14. In the prophets of Jerusalem also I have seen a horrible thing: they commit adultery, and walk in lies; and they strengthen the hands of evildoers, so that none does return from his wickedness: they are all of them become to me as Sodom, and its inhabitants as Gomorrah.
 15. so basically thus says Yahweh of Armies concerning the prophets: check this out,, I will feed them with wormwood, and create them drink the water of gall; for from the prophets of Jerusalem is ungodliness gone forth into all the land.
 16. Thus says Yahweh of Armies, Don’t listen up to the words of the prophets who prophesy to ya: they drop knowledge ya vanity; they spill the tea a vision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of Yahweh.
 17. They say continually to those who despise me, Yahweh has said, ya shall have peace; and to everyone who walks in the stubbornness of his own heart they say, No evil shall come through on ya.
 18. For who has stood in the council of Yahweh, that he should perceive and hear his word? who has marked my word, and heard it?
 19. check this out,, the storm of Yahweh, his wrath, has gone forth. Yes, a whirling storm. It shall burst on the head of the wicked.
 20. The anger of Yahweh won't return, until he has executed, and until he have performed the intents of his heart: in the latter days ya shall understand it perfectly.
 21. I sent not these prophets, yet they ran: I didn’t spill the tea to them, yet they prophesied.
 22. But if they had stood in my council, then had they caused my people to hear my words, and had turned them from their evil way, and from the evil of their doings.
 23. Am I a God at hand, says Yahweh, and not a God afar off?
 24. Can any hide himself in secret places so that I won't check it out him? says Yahweh. Don’t I fill heaven and earth? says Yahweh.
 25. I have heard what the prophets have said, who prophesy lies in my name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed.
 26. How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets who prophesy lies, even the prophets of the deceit of their own heart?
 27. who think to cause my people to forget my name by their dreams which they tell every man to his neighbor, as their fathers forgot my name for Baal.
 28. The God's messenger who has a dream, let him tell a dream; and he who has my word, let him spill the tea my word faithfully. What is the straw to the wheat? says Yahweh.
 29. Isn’t my word like fire? says Yahweh; and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces?
 30. so basically, check this out,, I am against the prophets, says Yahweh, who steal my words everyone from his neighbor.
 31. check this out,, I am against the prophets, says Yahweh, who use their tongues, and say, He says.
 32. check this out,, I am against those who prophesy lying dreams, says Yahweh, and do tell them, and cause my people to err by their lies, and by their vain boasting: yet I didn’t send them, nor commanded them; neither do they profit this people at all, says Yahweh.
 33. When this people, or the God's messenger, or a priest, shall ask ya, saying, What is the burden of Yahweh? then ya shall tell them, What burden! I will cast ya off, says Yahweh.
 34. As for the God's messenger, and the priest, and the people, who shall say, The burden of Yahweh, I will even punish that man and his house.
 35. ya shall say everyone to his neighbor, and everyone to his fam bro, What has Yahweh answered? and, What has Yahweh spoken?
 36. ya shall mention the burden of Yahweh no more: for every man’s own word shall be his burden; for ya have perverted the words of the living God, of Yahweh of Armies our God.
 37. ya shall say to the God's messenger, What has Yahweh answered ya? and, What has Yahweh spoken?
 38. But if ya say, The burden of Yahweh; so basically thus says Yahweh: cuz ya say this word, The burden of Yahweh, and I have sent to ya, saying, ya won't say, The burden of Yahweh;
 39. so basically, check this out,, I will utterly forget ya, and I will cast ya off, and the city that I gave to ya and to your fathers, away from my presence:
 40. and I will bring an everlasting reproach on ya, and a perpetual shame, which won't be forgotten.
