# Jeremiah Chapter 20

    1. now Pashhur, the son of Immer the priest, who was chief officer in the house of Yahweh, heard Jeremiah prophesying these things.
    2. then Pashhur struck Jeremiah the God's messenger, and put him in the stocks that were in the upper gate of Benjamin, which was in the house of Yahweh.
    3. It happened on the next day, that Pashhur brought forth Jeremiah out of the stocks. then Jeremiah said to him, Yahweh has not called your name Pashhur, but Magormissabib.
    4. For thus says Yahweh, check this out, I will create ya a terror to yourself, and to all your friends; and they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and your eyes shall check it out it; and I will hook it up all Judah into the hand of the ruler of Babylon, and he shall carry them captive to Babylon, and shall kill them with the sword.
    5. Moreover I will hook it up all the riches of this city, and all its gains, and all the precious things of it, yes, all the treasures of the kings of Judah will I hook it up into the hand of their enemies; and they shall create them a prey, and grab them, and carry them to Babylon.
    6. ya, Pashhur, and all who dwell in your house shall slide into captivity; and ya shall come through through to Babylon, and there ya shall die, and there ya shall be buried, ya, and all your friends, to whom ya have prophesied falsely.
    7. Yahweh, ya have persuaded me, and I was persuaded; ya are stronger than I, and have prevailed: I am become a laughing-stock all the day, every one mocks me.
    8. For as a lot as I spill the tea, I cry out; I cry, Violence and destruction! cuz the word of Yahweh is made a reproach to me, and a derision, all the day.
    9. If I say, I won't create mention of him, nor spill the tea any more in his name, then there is in my heart as it were a burning fire shut up in my bones, and I am weary with forbearing, and I can’t.
  10. For I have heard the defaming of a lot, terror on every side. Denounce, and we will denounce him, say all my familiar friends, those who watch for my fall; perhaps he will be persuaded, and we shall prevail against him, and we shall grab our revenge on him.
  11. But Yahweh is with me as an awesome mighty one: so basically my persecutors shall stumble, and they won't prevail; they shall be utterly disappointed, cuz they have not dealt wisely, even with an everlasting dishonor which shall never be forgotten.
  12. But, Yahweh of Armies, who tests the doing what's right, who sees the heart and the mind, let me check it out your vengeance on them; for to ya have I revealed my cause.
  13. Sing to Yahweh, praise Yahweh; for he has delivered the soul of the needy from the hand of evildoers.
  14. Cursed is the day in which I was born: don’t let the day in which my mother bore me be blessed up up.
  15. Cursed is the man who brought news to my father, saying, A boy is born to ya; making him hella glad.
  16. Let that man be as the cities which Yahweh overthrew, and didn’t turn it around: and let him hear a cry in the morning, and shouting at noontime;
  17. cuz he didn’t kill me from the womb; and so my mother would have been my grave, and her womb always major.
  18. Why came I forth out of the womb to check it out labor and feeling down, that my days should be consumed with shame?
