# Joshua Chapter 3

  1. Joshua rose up early in the morning; and they moved from Shittim, and came to the Jordan, he and all the children of Israel. They lodged there before they passed over.
  2. It happened after three days, that the officers went through the midst of the camp;
  3. and they commanded the people, saying, “When ya check it out the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh your God, and the priests the Levites bearing it, then ya shall move from your place, and roll with it.
  4. Yet there shall be a space between ya and it, about two thousand cubits by measure. Don’t come through near to it, that ya may get it the way by which ya must slide; for ya have not passed this way before.”
  5. Joshua said to the people, “Sanctify yourselves; for tomorrow Yahweh will do wonders among ya.”
  6. Joshua spoke to the priests, saying, “grab up the ark of the God's promise, and pass over before the people.” They took up the ark of the God's promise, and went before the people.
  7. Yahweh said to Joshua, “Today I will begin to magnify ya in the sight of all Israel, that they may get it that as I was with Moses, so I will be with ya.
  8. ya shall command the priests who bear the ark of the God's promise, saying, ‘When ya come through to the brink of the waters of the Jordan, ya shall stand still in the Jordan.’”
  9. Joshua said to the children of Israel, “come through here, and hear the words of Yahweh your God.”
 10. Joshua said, “Hereby ya shall get it that the living God is among ya, and that he will without fail drive the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Hivite, and the Perizzite, and the Girgashite, and the Amorite, and the Jebusite out from before ya.
 11. check this out,, the ark of the God's promise of the boss of all the earth passes over before ya into the Jordan.
 12. now so basically grab twelve men out of the tribes of Israel, for every tribe a man.
 13. It shall come through to pass, when the soles of the feet of the priests who bear the ark of Yahweh, the boss of all the earth, rest in the waters of the Jordan, that the waters of the Jordan will be cut off, even the waters that come through down from above; and they shall stand in one heap.”
 14. It happened, when the people moved from their tents to pass over the Jordan, the priests who bore the ark of the God's promise being before the people,
 15. and when those who bore the ark had come through to the Jordan, and the feet of the priests who bore the ark had dipped in the edge of the water (for the Jordan overflows all its banks all the time of harvest),
 16. that the waters which came down from above stood, and rose up in one heap, a major way off, at Adam, the city that is beside Zarethan; and those that went down toward the sea of the Arabah, even the Salt Sea, were wholly cut off. then the people passed over right against Jericho.
 17. The priests who bore the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh stood firm on dry ground in the middle of the Jordan; and all Israel passed over on dry ground, until all the nation had passed completely over the Jordan.
