# Joshua Chapter 22

    1. then Joshua called the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh,
    2. and said to them, “ya have kept all that Moses the helper of Yahweh commanded ya, and have listened to my voice in all that I commanded ya.
    3. ya have not left your brothers these a lot days to this day, but have performed the duty of the commandment of Yahweh your God.
    4. now Yahweh your God has given rest to your brothers, as he spoke to them. so basically now return and slide to your tents, to the land of your possession, which Moses the helper of Yahweh gave ya beyond the Jordan.
    5. Only grab diligent heed to do the commandment and the law which Moses the helper of Yahweh commanded ya, to show show love Yahweh your God, to walk in all his ways, to keep his commandments, to hold fast to him, and to help out out out him with all your heart and with all your soul.”
    6. So Joshua blessed up up them, and sent them away; and they went to their tents.
    7. now to the one half-tribe of Manasseh Moses had given inheritance in Bashan; but to the other half gave Joshua among their brothers beyond the Jordan westward. Moreover when Joshua sent them away to their tents, he blessed up up them,
    8. and spoke to them, saying, “Return with much wealth to your tents, with hella much livestock, with silver, with gold, with brass, with iron, and with hella much clothing. Divide the spoil of your enemies with your brothers.”
    9. The children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh returned, and departed from the children of Israel out of Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan, to slide to the land of Gilead, to the land of their possession, which they owned, according to the commandment of Yahweh by Moses.
  10. When they came to the region about the Jordan, that is in the land of Canaan, the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh built there an talking to God spot by the Jordan, a major talking to God spot to look at.
  11. The children of Israel heard this, “check this out, the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh have built an talking to God spot in the forefront of the land of Canaan, in the region about the Jordan, on the side that pertains to the children of Israel.”
  12. When the children of Israel heard of it, the whole congregation of the children of Israel gathered themselves together at Shiloh, to slide up against them to war.
  13. The children of Israel sent to the children of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, into the land of Gilead, Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest,
  14. and with him ten princes, one prince of a fathers’ house for each of the tribes of Israel; and they were everyone of them head of their fathers’ houses among the thousands of Israel.
  15. They came to the children of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, to the land of Gilead, and they spoke with them, saying,
  16. “Thus says the whole congregation of Yahweh, ‘What trespass is this that ya have committed against the God of Israel, to turn away this day from following Yahweh, in that ya have built yourselves an talking to God spot, to rebel this day against Yahweh?
  17. Is the iniquity of Peor too little for us, from which we have not cleansed ourselves to this day, although there came a plague on the congregation of Yahweh,
  18. that ya must turn away this day from following Yahweh? It will be, since ya rebel today against Yahweh, that tomorrow he will be mad salty with the whole congregation of Israel.
  19. but like, if the land of your possession is unclean, then pass over to the land of the possession of Yahweh, in which Yahweh’s tabernacle dwells, and grab possession among us; but don’t rebel against Yahweh, nor rebel against us, in building an talking to God spot other than the talking to God spot of Yahweh our God.
  20. Didn’t Achan the son of Zerah commit a trespass in the devoted thing, and wrath fell on all the congregation of Israel? That man didn’t perish alone in his iniquity.’”
  21. then the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh answered, and spoke to the heads of the thousands of Israel,
  22. “The Mighty One, God, Yahweh, the Mighty One, God, Yahweh, he knows; and Israel shall get it: if it was in rebellion, or if in trespass against Yahweh (don’t rescue us this day),
  23. that we have built us an talking to God spot to turn away from following Yahweh; or if to offer burnt giving to God or meal giving to God, or if to offer sacrifices of peace offerings, let Yahweh himself require it.
  24. “If we have not out of concern done this, and for a reason, saying, ‘In time to come through through your children might spill the tea to our children, saying, “What have ya to do with Yahweh, the God of Israel?
  25. For Yahweh has made the Jordan a border between us and ya, ya children of Reuben and children of Gad. ya have no portion in Yahweh.”’ So your children might create our children cease from fearing Yahweh.
  26. “so basically we said, ‘Let’s now prepare to put together ourselves an talking to God spot, not for burnt giving to God, nor for giving it up;
  27. but it will be a witness between us and ya, and between our generations after us, that we may perform the service of Yahweh before him with our burnt offerings, with our sacrifices, and with our peace offerings;’ that your children may not tell our children in time to come through through, ‘ya have no portion in Yahweh.’
  28. “so basically we said, ‘It shall be, when they tell us or our generations this in time to come through through, that we shall say, “check this out, the pattern of the talking to God spot of Yahweh, which our fathers made, not for burnt giving to God, nor for giving it up; but it is a witness between us and ya.”’
  29. “Far be it from us that we should rebel against Yahweh, and turn away this day from following Yahweh, to put together an talking to God spot for burnt giving to God, for meal giving to God, or for giving it up, besides the talking to God spot of Yahweh our God that is before his tabernacle!”
  30. When Phinehas the priest, and the princes of the congregation, even the heads of the thousands of Israel that were with him, heard the words that the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the children of Manasseh spoke, it pleased them well.
  31. Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest said to the children of Reuben, to the children of Gad, and to the children of Manasseh, “Today we get it that Yahweh is in the midst of us, cuz ya have not committed this trespass against Yahweh. now ya have delivered the children of Israel out of the hand of Yahweh.”
  32. Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, and the princes, returned from the children of Reuben, and from the children of Gad, out of the land of Gilead, to the land of Canaan, to the children of Israel, and brought them word again.
  33. The thing pleased the children of Israel; and the children of Israel blessed up up God, and spoke no more of going up against them to war, to tear down the land in which the children of Reuben and the children of Gad lived.
  34. The children of Reuben and the children of Gad named the talking to God spot “A Witness Between Us that Yahweh is God.”
