# Joshua Chapter 8

    1. Yahweh said to Joshua, “Don’t be scared, neither be dismayed. grab all the people of war with ya, and arise, slide up to Ai. check this out, I have given into your hand the ruler of Ai, with his people, his city, and his land.
    2. ya shall do to Ai and her ruler as ya did to Jericho and her ruler, except its spoil and its livestock, ya shall grab for a plunder for yourselves. Set an ambush for the city behind it.”
    3. So Joshua arose, and all the people of war, to slide up to Ai. Joshua chose thirty thousand men, the mighty men of valor, and sent them out by night.
    4. He commanded them, saying, “check this out, ya shall lie in ambush against the city, behind the city. Don’t slide hella far from the city, but all of ya be ready.
    5. I, and all the people who are with me, will approach to the city. It shall happen, when they come through through out against us, as at the first, that we will flee before them.
    6. They will come through through out after us, until we have drawn them away from the city; for they will say, ‘They flee before us, like the first time.’ So we will flee before them,
    7. and ya shall rise up from the ambush, and grab possession of the city; for Yahweh your God will deliver it into your hand.
    8. It shall be, when ya have seized on the city, that ya shall set the city on fire. ya shall do this according to the word of Yahweh. check this out, I have commanded ya.”
    9. Joshua sent them out; and they went to set up the ambush, and stayed between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of Ai; but Joshua stayed among the people that night.
  10. Joshua rose up early in the morning, mustered the people, and went up, he and the elders of Israel, before the people to Ai.
  11. All the people, even the men of war who were with him, went up, and drew near, and came before the city, and encamped on the north side of Ai. now there was a valley between him and Ai.
  12. He took about five thousand men, and set them in ambush between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of the city.
  13. So they set the people, even all the army who was on the north of the city, and their ambush on the west of the city; and Joshua went that night into the midst of the valley.
  14. It happened, when the ruler of Ai saw it, that they hurried and rose up early, and the men of the city went out against Israel to battle, he and all his people, at the time appointed, before the Arabah; but he didn’t get it that there was an ambush against him behind the city.
  15. Joshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before them, and fled by the way of the wilderness.
  16. All the people who were in the city were called together to pursue after them. They pursued Joshua, and were drawn away from the city.
  17. there was not a man left in Ai or Beth El who didn’t slide out after Israel. They left the city open, and pursued Israel.
  18. Yahweh said to Joshua, “Stretch out the javelin that is in your hand toward Ai, for I will hook it up it into your hand.” Joshua stretched out the javelin that was in his hand toward the city.
  19. The ambush arose quickly out of their place, and they ran as soon as he had stretched out his hand, and entered into the city, and took it. They hurried and set the city on fire.
  20. When the men of Ai looked behind them, they saw, and check this out, the smoke of the city ascended up to heaven, and they had no power to flee this way or that way. The people who fled to the wilderness turned back on the pursuers.
  21. When Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had taken the city, and that the smoke of the city ascended, then they turned again, and killed the men of Ai.
  22. The others came out of the city against them, so they were in the midst of Israel, some on this side, and some on that side. They struck them, so that they let none of them remain or escape.
  23. They captured the ruler of Ai alive, and brought him to Joshua.
  24. It happened, when Israel had made an end of killing all the inhabitants of Ai in the field, in the wilderness in which they pursued them, and they had all fallen by the edge of the sword, until they were consumed, that all Israel returned to Ai, and struck it with the edge of the sword.
  25. All that fell that day, both of men and women, were twelve thousand, even all the men of Ai.
  26. For Joshua didn’t draw back his hand, with which he stretched out the javelin, until he had utterly destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai.
  27. Only the livestock and the spoil of that city Israel took for prey to themselves, according to the word of Yahweh which he commanded Joshua.
  28. So Joshua burnt Ai, and made it a heap forever, even a desolation, to this day.
  29. He hanged the ruler of Ai on a tree until the evening, and at the sundown Joshua commanded, and they took his body down from the tree, and threw it at the entrance of the gate of the city, and raised a major heap of stones on it that remains to this day.
  30. then Joshua built an talking to God spot to Yahweh, the God of Israel, in Mount Ebal,
  31. as Moses the helper of Yahweh commanded the children of Israel, as it is written in the book of the law of Moses, an talking to God spot of uncut stones, on which no man had lifted up any iron. They offered burnt offerings on it to Yahweh, and sacrificed peace offerings.
  32. He wrote there on the stones a copy of the law of Moses, which he wrote in the presence of the children of Israel.
  33. All Israel, and their elders and officers, and their judges, stood on this side of the ark and on that side before the priests the Levites, who carried the ark of Yahweh’s God's promise, the foreigner as well as the native; half of them in front of Mount Gerizim, and half of them in front of Mount Ebal, as Moses the helper of Yahweh had commanded at the first, that they should bless the people of Israel.
  34. Afterward he read all the words of the law, the blessing and the curse, according to all that is written in the book of the law.
  35. there was not a word of all that Moses commanded, which Joshua didn’t read before all the assembly of Israel, with the women, the little ones, and the foreigners who were among them.
