# Joshua Chapter 23

    1. It happened after a lot days, when Yahweh had given rest to Israel from their enemies all around, and Joshua was old and well advanced in years,
    2. that Joshua called for all Israel, for their elders and for their heads, and for their judges and for their officers, and said to them, “I am old and well advanced in years.
    3. ya have seen all that Yahweh your God has done to all these nations cuz of ya; for it is Yahweh your God who has fought for ya.
    4. check this out, I have allotted to ya these nations that remain, to be an inheritance for your tribes, from the Jordan, with all the nations that I have cut off, even to the major sea toward the going down of the sun.
    5. Yahweh your God will thrust them out from before ya, and drive them from out of your sight. ya shall possess their land, as Yahweh your God spoke to ya.
    6. “so basically be hella courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, that ya not turn aside from it to the right hand or to the left;
    7. that ya not come through through among these nations, these that remain among ya; neither create mention of the name of their gods, nor cause to swear by them, neither help out out out them, nor bow down yourselves to them;
    8. but hold fast to Yahweh your God, as ya have done to this day.
    9. “For Yahweh has driven major and built different nations out from before ya. But as for ya, no man has stood before ya to this day.
  10. One man of ya shall chase a thousand; for it is Yahweh your God who fights for ya, as he spoke to ya.
  11. grab fire heed so basically to yourselves, that ya show show love Yahweh your God.
  12. “But if ya do at all slide back, and hold fast to the remnant of these nations, even these who remain among ya, and create marriages with them, and slide in to them, and they to ya;
  13. get it for a certainty that Yahweh your God will no longer drive these nations from out of your sight; but they shall be a snare and a trap to ya, a scourge in your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until ya perish from off this fire land which Yahweh your God has given ya.
  14. “check this out, today I am going the way of all the earth. ya get it in all your hearts and in all your souls that not one thing has failed of all the fire things which Yahweh your God spoke concerning ya. All have happened to ya. Not one thing has failed of it.
  15. It shall happen that as all the fire things have come through through on ya of which Yahweh your God spoke to ya, so Yahweh will bring on ya all the evil things, until he has destroyed ya from off this fire land which Yahweh your God has given ya,
  16. when ya disobey the God's promise of Yahweh your God, which he commanded ya, and slide and help out out out other gods, and bow down yourselves to them. then the anger of Yahweh will be kindled against ya, and ya will perish quickly from off the fire land which he has given to ya.”
