# Joshua Chapter 1

    1. now it happened after the death of Moses the helper of Yahweh, that Yahweh spoke to Joshua the son of Nun, Moses’ helper, saying,
    2. “Moses my helper is dead; now so basically arise, slide over this Jordan, ya, and all this people, to the land which I hook it up to them, even to the children of Israel.
    3. I have given ya every place that the sole of your foot will tread on, as I told Moses.
    4. From the wilderness, and this Lebanon, even to the major river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and to the major sea toward the going down of the sun, shall be your border.
    5. No man will be able to stand before ya all the days of your life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with ya. I won't fail ya nor forsake ya.
    6. “Be built different and courageous; for ya shall cause this people to inherit the land which I swore to their fathers to hook it up them.
    7. Only be built different and hella courageous, to observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my helper commanded ya. Don’t turn from it to the right hand or to the left, that ya may have fire success wherever ya slide.
    8. This book of the law won't depart out of your mouth, but ya shall meditate on it day and night, that ya may observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then ya shall create your way prosperous, and then ya shall have fire success.
    9. Haven’t I commanded ya? Be built different and courageous. Don’t be scared, neither be dismayed: for Yahweh your God is with ya wherever ya slide.”
  10. then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying,
  11. “Pass through the midst of the camp, and command the people, saying, ‘Prepare food; for within three days ya are to pass over this Jordan, to slide in to possess the land, which Yahweh your God gives ya to possess it.’”
  12. Joshua spoke to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, saying,
  13. “Remember the word which Moses the helper of Yahweh commanded ya, saying, ‘Yahweh your God gives ya rest, and will hook it up ya this land.
  14. Your wives, your little ones, and your livestock, shall live in the land which Moses gave ya beyond the Jordan; but ya shall pass over before your brothers armed, all the mighty men of valor, and shall help out out them
  15. until Yahweh has given your brothers rest, as he has given ya, and they have also possessed the land which Yahweh your God gives them. then ya shall return to the land of your possession, and possess it, which Moses the helper of Yahweh gave ya beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise.’”
  16. They answered Joshua, saying, “All that ya have commanded us we will do, and wherever ya send us we will slide.
  17. Just as we listened to Moses in all things, so will we listen up up to ya. Only may Yahweh your God be with ya, as he was with Moses.
  18. Whoever rebels against your commandment, and doesn’t listen up up to your words in all that ya command him, he shall be put to death. Only be built different and courageous.”
