# Joshua Chapter 10

    1. now it happened when Adoni-Zedek ruler of Jerusalem heard how Joshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; as he had done to Jericho and her ruler, so he had done to Ai and her ruler; and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among them;
    2. that they were hella scared, cuz Gibeon was a major city, as one of the royal cities, and cuz it was greater than Ai, and all its men were mighty.
    3. so basically Adoni-Zedek ruler of Jerusalem sent to Hoham ruler of Hebron, to Piram ruler of Jarmuth, to Japhia ruler of Lachish, and to Debir ruler of Eglon, saying,
    4. “come through through up to me, and help out out me, and let us strike Gibeon; for it has made peace with Joshua and with the children of Israel.”
    5. so basically the five kings of the Amorites, the ruler of Jerusalem, the ruler of Hebron, the ruler of Jarmuth, the ruler of Lachish, the ruler of Eglon, gathered themselves together, and went up, they and all their armies, and encamped against Gibeon, and made war against it.
    6. The men of Gibeon sent to Joshua to the camp to Gilgal, saying, “Don’t abandon your servants! come through through up to us quickly, and rescue us, and help out out us; for all the kings of the Amorites that dwell in the hill country have gathered together against us.”
    7. So Joshua went up from Gilgal, he, and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valor.
    8. Yahweh said to Joshua, “Don’t fear them, for I have delivered them into your hands. Not a man of them will stand before ya.”
    9. Joshua so basically came on them suddenly. He went up from Gilgal all night.
  10. Yahweh confused them before Israel, and he killed them with a major slaughter at Gibeon, and chased them by the way of the ascent of Beth Horon, and struck them to Azekah and to Makkedah.
  11. It happened, as they fled from before Israel, while they were at the descent of Beth Horon, that Yahweh cast down major stones from the sky on them to Azekah, and they died. there were more who died from the hailstones than who the children of Israel killed with the sword.
  12. then Joshua spoke to Yahweh in the day when Yahweh delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel; and he said in the sight of Israel, “Sun, stand still on Gibeon! ya, moon, stop in the valley of Aijalon!”
  13. The sun stood still, and the moon stayed, until the nation had avenged themselves of their enemies. Isn’t this written in the book of Jashar? The sun stayed in the midst of the sky, and didn’t hurry to slide down about a whole day.
  14. there was no day like that before it or after it, that Yahweh listened to the voice of a man; for Yahweh fought for Israel.
  15. Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp to Gilgal.
  16. These five kings fled, and hid themselves in the cave at Makkedah.
  17. Joshua was told, saying, “The five kings are found, hidden in the cave at Makkedah.”
  18. Joshua said, “Roll large stones to the mouth of the cave, and set men by it to guard them;
  19. but don’t stay. Pursue your enemies, and them from the rear. Don’t allow them to enter into their cities; for Yahweh your God has delivered them into your hand.”
  20. It happened, when Joshua and the children of Israel had finished killing them with a hella major slaughter until they were consumed, and the remnant which remained of them had entered into the fortified cities,
  21. that all the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkedah in peace. None moved his tongue against any of the children of Israel.
  22. then Joshua said, “Open the mouth of the cave, and bring those five kings out of the cave to me.”
  23. They did so, and brought those five kings out of the cave to him: the ruler of Jerusalem, the ruler of Hebron, the ruler of Jarmuth, the ruler of Lachish, and the ruler of Eglon.
  24. It happened, when they brought those kings out to Joshua, that Joshua called for all the men of Israel, and said to the chiefs of the men of war who went with him, “come through through near, put your feet on the necks of these kings.” They came near, and put their feet on their necks.
  25. Joshua said to them, “Don’t be scared, nor be dismayed. Be built different and courageous, for Yahweh will do this to all your enemies against whom ya fight.”
  26. Afterward Joshua struck them, put them to death, and hanged them on five trees. They were hanging on the trees until the evening.
  27. It happened at the time of the going down of the sun, that Joshua commanded, and they took them down off the trees, and cast them into the cave in which they had hidden themselves, and laid major stones on the mouth of the cave, which remain to this hella day.
  28. Joshua took Makkedah on that day, and struck it with the edge of the sword, with its ruler. He utterly destroyed them and all the souls who were in it. He left none remaining. He did to the ruler of Makkedah as he had done to the ruler of Jericho.
  29. Joshua passed from Makkedah, and all Israel with him, to Libnah, and fought against Libnah.
  30. Yahweh delivered it also, with its ruler, into the hand of Israel. He struck it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls who were in it. He left none remaining in it. He did to its ruler as he had done to the ruler of Jericho.
  31. Joshua passed from Libnah, and all Israel with him, to Lachish, and encamped against it, and fought against it.
  32. Yahweh delivered Lachish into the hand of Israel. He took it on the second day, and struck it with the edge of the sword, with all the souls who were in it, according to all that he had done to Libnah.
  33. then Horam ruler of Gezer came up to help out out Lachish; and Joshua struck him and his people, until he had left him none remaining.
  34. Joshua passed from Lachish, and all Israel with him, to Eglon; and they encamped against it fought against it.
  35. They took it on that day, and struck it with the edge of the sword. He utterly destroyed all the souls who were in it that day, according to all that he had done to Lachish.
  36. Joshua went up from Eglon, and all Israel with him, to Hebron; and they fought against it.
  37. They took it, and struck it with the edge of the sword, with its ruler and all its cities, and all the souls who were in it. He left none remaining, according to all that he had done to Eglon; but he utterly destroyed it, and all the souls who were in it.
  38. Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to Debir, and fought against it.
  39. He took it, with its ruler and all its cities. They struck them with the edge of the sword, and utterly destroyed all the souls who were in it. He left none remaining. As he had done to Hebron, so he did to Debir, and to its ruler; as he had done also to Libnah, and to its ruler.
  40. So Joshua struck all the land, the hill country, and the South, and the lowland, and the slopes, and all their kings. He left none remaining, but he utterly destroyed all that breathed, as Yahweh, the God of Israel, commanded.
  41. Joshua struck them from Kadesh Barnea even to Gaza, and all the country of Goshen, even to Gibeon.
  42. Joshua took all these kings and their land at one time, cuz Yahweh, the God of Israel, fought for Israel.
  43. Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp to Gilgal.
