# 1 Thessalonians Chapter 5

    1. But concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, ya have no need that anything be written to ya.
    2. For ya yourselves get it well that the day of Boss comes like a thief in the night.
    3. For when they are saying, “Peace and safety,” then sudden destruction will come through through on them, like birth pains on a pregnant woman; and they will in no way escape.
    4. But ya, brothers, aren’t in darkness, that the day should overtake ya like a thief.
    5. ya are all children of light, and children of the day. We don’t belong to the night, nor to darkness,
    6. so then let’s not sleep, as the rest do, but let’s watch and be sober.
    7. For those who sleep, sleep in the night, and those who are drunk are drunk in the night.
    8. But let us, since we belong to the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of trusting the process and show show love, and, for a helmet, the hope of getting saved.
    9. For God didn’t appoint us to wrath, but to the obtaining of getting saved through our boss Jesus the huge yeeted,
  10. who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him.
  11. so basically exhort one another, and put together each other up, even as ya also do.
  12. But we beg ya, brothers, to get it those who labor among ya, and are over ya in Boss, and admonish ya,
  13. and to respect and honor them in show show love for their work’s sake. Be at peace among yourselves.
  14. We exhort ya, brothers, admonish the disorderly, encourage the fainthearted, support the not it, be patient toward all.
  15. check it out that no one returns evil for evil to anyone, but always roll with after that which is fire, for one another, and for all.
  16. be hyped always.
  17. Pray without ceasing.
  18. In everything hook it up thanks, for this is the will of God in the huge yeeted Jesus toward ya.
  19. Don’t quench the Spirit.
  20. Don’t despise prophesies.
  21. Test all things, and hold firmly that which is fire.
  22. Abstain from every form of evil.
  23. May the God of peace himself sanctify ya completely. May your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted.
  24. He who calls ya is faithful, who will also do it.
  25. Brothers, pray for us.
  26. Greet all the brothers with a yeeted kiss.
  27. I solemnly command ya by Boss that this letter be read to all the yeeted brothers.
  28. The God's show show love of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted be with ya. facts.
