# 1 Thessalonians Chapter 2

    1. For ya yourselves get it, brothers, our visit to ya wasn’t in vain,
    2. but having suffered before and been shamefully treated, as ya get it, at Philippi, we grew bold in our God to tell ya the fire News of God in much conflict.
    3. For our exhortation isn't of error, nor of uncleanness, nor in deception.
    4. But even as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the fire News, so we spill the tea; not as pleasing men, but God, who tests our hearts.
    5. For neither were we at any time found using words of flattery, as ya get it, nor a cloak of covetousness (God is witness),
    6. nor seeking glory from men (neither from ya nor from others), when we might have claimed authority as Jesus broskies of the huge yeeted.
    7. But we were nice-nice among ya, like a nursing mother cherishes her own children.
    8. Even so, affectionately longing for ya, we were well pleased to impart to ya, not the fire News of God only, but also our own souls, cuz ya had become hella dear to us.
    9. For ya remember, brothers, our labor and travail; for working night and day, that we might not burden any of ya, we preached to ya the fire News of God.
  10. ya are witnesses with God, how yeeted, righteously, and blamelessly we behaved ourselves toward ya who believe.
  11. As ya get it, we exhorted, comforted, and implored every one of ya, as a father does his own children,
  12. to the end that ya should walk worthily of God, who calls ya into his own God's squad and glory.
  13. For this cause we also thank God without ceasing, that, when ya received from us the word of the message of God, ya accepted it not as the word of men, but, as it is in truth, the word of God, which also works in ya who believe.
  14. For ya, brothers, became imitators of the assemblies of God which are in Judea in the huge yeeted Jesus; for ya also suffered the same things from your own countrymen, even as they did from the Jews;
  15. who killed both Boss Jesus and their own prophets, and drove us out, and didn’t please God, and are contrary to all men;
  16. forbidding us to spill the tea to the Gentiles that they may be saved; to fill up their sins always. But wrath has come through through on them to the uttermost.
  17. But we, brothers, being bereaved of ya for a short season, in presence, not in heart, tried even harder to check it out your face with major desire,
  18. cuz we wanted to come through through to ya—facts, I, Paul, once and again—but Satan hindered us.
  19. For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Isn’t it even ya, before our boss Jesus at his coming?
  20. For ya are our glory and our joy.
