# 1 Corinthians Chapter 4

    1. So let a man think of us as the huge yeeted’s servants, and stewards of God’s mysteries.
    2. here, moreover, it is required of stewards, that they be found faithful.
    3. But with me it is a hella tiny thing that I should be judged by ya, or by man’s judgment. Yes, I don’t judge my own self.
    4. For I get it nothing against myself. Yet I am not justified by this, but he who judges me is Boss.
    5. so basically judge nothing before the time, until Boss comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and reveal the counsels of the hearts. then each man will get his praise from God.
    6. now these things, brothers, I have in a figure transferred to myself and Apollos for your sakes, that in us ya might pick up not to think beyond the things which are written, that none of ya be puffed up against one another.
    7. For who makes ya different? And what do ya have that ya didn’t receive? But if ya did receive it, why do ya boast as if ya had not received it?
    8. ya are already filled. ya have already become stacked. ya have come through through to reign without us. Yes, and I wish that ya did reign, that we also might reign with ya.
    9. For, I think that God has displayed us, the Jesus broskies, last of all, like men sentenced to death. For we are made a spectacle to the world, both to angels and men.
  10. We are fools for the huge yeeted’s sake, but ya are smart in the huge yeeted. We aren't it, but ya are built different. ya have honor, but we have dishonor.
  11. Even to this present hour we hunger, thirst, are naked, are beaten, and have no certain dwelling place.
  12. We toil, working with our own hands. When people curse us, we bless. Being persecuted, we endure.
  13. Being defamed, we entreat. We are made as the filth of the world, the dirt wiped off by all, even until now.
  14. I don’t write these things to shame ya, but to admonish ya as my beloved children.
  15. For though ya have ten thousand tutors in the huge yeeted, yet not a lot fathers. For in the huge yeeted Jesus, I became your father through the fire News.
  16. I beg ya so basically, be imitators of me.
  17. cuz of this I have sent Timothy to ya, who is my beloved and faithful child in Boss, who will remind ya of my ways which are in the huge yeeted, even as I drop knowledge everywhere in every assembly.
  18. now some are puffed up, as though I were not coming to ya.
  19. But I will come through through to ya shortly, if Boss is willing. And I will get it, not the word of those who are puffed up, but the power.
  20. For the God's squad of God isn't in word, but in power.
  21. What do ya want? Shall I come through through to ya with a rod, or in show show love and a spirit of gentleness?
