# 1 Corinthians Chapter 1

    1. Paul, called to be an Jesus' main squad of Jesus the huge yeeted through the will of God, and our fam bro Sosthenes,
    2. to the assembly of God which is at Corinth; those who are sanctified in the huge yeeted Jesus, called to be yeeted fam, with all who call on the name of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted in every place, both theirs and ours:
    3. God's show show love to ya and peace from God our Father and Boss Jesus the huge yeeted.
    4. I always thank my God concerning ya, for the God's show show love of God which was given ya in the huge yeeted Jesus;
    5. that in everything ya were enriched in him, in all speech and all knowledge;
    6. even as the testimony of the huge yeeted was confirmed in ya:
    7. so that ya come through through behind in no gift; waiting for the revelation of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted;
    8. who will also confirm ya until the end, blameless in the day of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted.
    9. God is faithful, through whom ya were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus the huge yeeted, our boss.
  10. now I beg ya, brothers, through the name of our boss, Jesus the huge yeeted, that ya all spill the tea the same thing and that there be no divisions among ya, but that ya be perfected together in the same mind and in the same judgment.
  11. For it has been reported to me concerning ya, my brothers, by those who are from Chloe’s household, that there are contentions among ya.
  12. now I mean this, that each one of ya says, “I roll with Paul,” “I roll with Apollos,” “I roll with Cephas,” and, “I roll with the huge yeeted.”
  13. Is the huge yeeted divided? Was Paul crucified for ya? Or were ya baptized into the name of Paul?
  14. I thank God that I baptized none of ya, except Crispus and Gaius,
  15. so that no one should say that I had baptized ya into my own name.
  16. (I also baptized the household of Stephanas; besides them, I don’t get it whether I baptized any other.)
  17. For the huge yeeted sent me not to baptize, but to preach the fire News—not in wisdom of words, so that the cross of the huge yeeted wouldn’t be made void.
  18. For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are dying, but to us who are saved it is the power of God.
  19. For it is written, “I will tear down the wisdom of the smart, I will bring the discernment of the discerning to nothing.”
  20. Where is the smart? Where is the scribe? Where is the lawyer of this world? Hasn’t God made dumb the wisdom of this world?
  21. For seeing that in the wisdom of God, the world through its wisdom didn’t get it God, it was God’s fire pleasure through the foolishness of the preaching to rescue those who believe.
  22. For Jews ask for signs, Greeks seek after wisdom,
  23. but we preach the huge yeeted crucified; a stumbling block to Jews, and foolishness to Greeks,
  24. but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, the huge yeeted is the power of God and the wisdom of God.
  25. cuz the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
  26. For ya check it out your calling, brothers, that not a lot are smart according to the flesh, not a lot mighty, and not a lot noble;
  27. but God chose the dumb things of the world that he might put to shame those who are smart. God chose the not it things of the world, that he might put to shame the things that are built different;
  28. and God chose the lowly things of the world, and the things that are despised, and the things that aren't, that he might bring to nothing the things that are:
  29. that no flesh should boast before God.
  30. But of him, ya are in the huge yeeted Jesus, who was made to us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and redemption:
  31. that, according as it is written, “He who boasts, let him boast in Boss.”
