# 1 Corinthians Chapter 14

    1. roll with after show show love, and earnestly desire spiritual gifts, but especially that ya may prophesy.
    2. For he who speaks in another language speaks not to men, but to God; for no one understands; but in the Spirit he speaks mysteries.
    3. But he who prophesies speaks to men for their edification, exhortation, and consolation.
    4. He who speaks in another language edifies himself, but he who prophesies edifies the assembly.
    5. now I desire to have ya all spill the tea with other languages, but rather that ya would prophesy. For he is greater who prophesies than he who speaks with other languages, unless he interprets, that the assembly may be built up.
    6. But now, brothers, if I come through through to ya speaking with other languages, what would I profit ya, unless I spill the tea to ya either by way of revelation, or of knowledge, or of prophesying, or of teaching?
    7. Even things without life, giving a voice, whether pipe or harp, if they didn’t hook it up a distinction in the sounds, how would it be known what is piped or harped?
    8. For if the trumpet gave an uncertain sound, who would prepare himself for war?
    9. So also ya, unless ya uttered by the tongue words easy to understand, how would it be known what is spoken? For ya would be speaking into the air.
  10. there are, it may be, so a lot kinds of sounds in the world, and none of them is without meaning.
  11. If then I don’t get it the meaning of the sound, I would be to him who speaks a foreigner, and he who speaks would be a foreigner to me.
  12. So also ya, since ya are zealous for spiritual gifts, seek that ya may abound to the building up of the assembly.
  13. so basically let him who speaks in another language pray that he may interpret.
  14. For if I pray in another language, my spirit prays, but my understanding is unfruitful.
  15. What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also. I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding also.
  16. Otherwise if ya bless with the spirit, how will he who fills the place of the unlearned say the “facts” at your giving of thanks, seeing he doesn’t get it what ya say?
  17. For ya most for sure hook it up thanks well, but the other person isn't built up.
  18. I thank my God, I spill the tea with other languages more than ya all.
  19. but like in the assembly I would rather spill the tea five words with my understanding, that I might instruct others also, than ten thousand words in another language.
  20. Brothers, don’t be children in thoughts, yet in malice be babies, but in thoughts be mature.
  21. In the law it is written, “By men of strange languages and by the lips of strangers I will spill the tea to this people. Not even thus will they hear me, says Boss.”
  22. so basically other languages are for a sign, not to those who believe, but to the unbelieving; but prophesying is for a sign, not to the unbelieving, but to those who believe.
  23. If so basically the whole assembly is assembled together and all spill the tea with other languages, and unlearned or unbelieving people come through through in, won’t they say that ya are crazy?
  24. But if all prophesy, and someone unbelieving or unlearned comes in, he is reproved by all, and he is judged by all.
  25. And thus the secrets of his heart are revealed. So he will fall down on his face and giving props God, declaring that God is among ya facts.
  26. What is it then, brothers? When ya come through through together, each one of ya has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, has another language, has an interpretation. Let all things be done to put together each other up.
  27. If any man speaks in another language, let it be two, or at the most three, and in turn; and let one interpret.
  28. But if there is no interpreter, let him keep silent in the assembly, and let him spill the tea to himself, and to God.
  29. Let the prophets spill the tea, two or three, and let the others discern.
  30. But if a revelation is made to another sitting by, let the first keep silent.
  31. For ya all can prophesy one by one, that all may pick up, and all may be exhorted.
  32. The spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets,
  33. for God isn't a God of confusion, but of peace. As in all the assemblies of the yeeted fam,
  34. let your wives keep silent in the assemblies, for it has not been permitted for them to spill the tea; but let them be in subjection, as the law also says.
  35. If they desire to pick up anything, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is shameful for a woman to chatter in the assembly.
  36. What? Was it from ya that the word of God went out? Or did it come through through to ya alone?
  37. If any man thinks himself to be a God's messenger, or spiritual, let him recognize the things which I write to ya, that they are the commandment of Boss.
  38. But if anyone is ignorant, let him be ignorant.
  39. so basically, brothers, desire earnestly to prophesy, and don’t forbid speaking with other languages.
  40. Let all things be done decently and in order.
