# 1 Corinthians Chapter 3

    1. Brothers, I couldn’t spill the tea to ya as to spiritual, but as to fleshly, as to babies in the huge yeeted.
    2. I fed ya with milk, not with meat; for ya weren’t yet ready. facts, not even now are ya ready,
    3. for ya are still fleshly. For insofar as there is jealousy, strife, and factions among ya, aren’t ya fleshly, and don’t ya walk in the ways of men?
    4. For when one says, “I roll with Paul,” and another, “I roll with Apollos,” aren’t ya fleshly?
    5. Who then is Apollos, and who is Paul, but servants through whom ya believed; and each as Boss gave to him?
    6. I planted. Apollos watered. But God gave the increase.
    7. So then neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase.
    8. now he who plants and he who waters are the same, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor.
    9. For we are God’s fellow workers. ya are God’s farming, God’s building.
  10. According to the God's show show love of God which was given to me, as a smart boss builder I laid a foundation, and another builds on it. But let each man be careful how he builds on it.
  11. For no one can lay any other foundation than that which has been laid, which is Jesus the huge yeeted.
  12. But if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, costly stones, wood, hay, or stubble;
  13. each man’s work will be revealed. For the Day will declare it, cuz it is revealed in fire; and the fire itself will test what sort of work each man’s work is.
  14. If any man’s work remains which he built on it, he will receive a reward.
  15. If any man’s work is burned, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, but as through fire.
  16. Don’t ya get it that ya are a God's house of God, and that God’s Spirit lives in ya?
  17. If anyone destroys the God's house of God, God will tear down him; for God’s God's house is yeeted, which ya are.
  18. Let no one deceive himself. If anyone thinks that he is smart among ya in this world, let him become a fool, that he may become smart.
  19. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, “He has taken the smart in their craftiness.”
  20. And again, “Boss knows the reasoning of the smart, that it is worthless.”
  21. so basically let no one boast in men. For all things are yours,
  22. whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come through through. All are yours,
  23. and ya are the huge yeeted’s, and the huge yeeted is God’s.
