# 1 Corinthians Chapter 16

  1. now concerning the collection for the set apart fam, as I commanded the assemblies of Galatia, ya do likewise.
  2. On the first day of the week, let each one of ya rescue, as he may prosper, that no collections be made when I come through.
  3. When I arrive, I will send whoever ya approve with letters to carry your gracious gift to Jerusalem.
  4. If it is appropriate for me to slide also, they will slide with me.
  5. But I will come through to ya when I have passed through Macedonia, for I am passing through Macedonia.
  6. But with ya it may be that I will stay, or even winter, that ya may send me on my journey wherever I slide.
  7. For I don't wish to check it out ya now in passing, but I hope to stay a while with ya, if the boss permits.
  8. But I will stay at Ephesus until Pentecost,
  9. for a major and effective door has opened to me, and there are a lot adversaries.
 10. now if Timothy comes, check it out that he is with ya without fear, for he does the work of the boss, as I also do.
 11. so basically let no one despise him. But set him forward on his journey in peace, that he may come through to me; for I expect him with the brothers.
 12. now concerning Apollos, the fam bro, I strongly urged him to come through to ya with the brothers; and it was not at all his desire to come through now; but he will come through when he has an opportunity.
 13. Watch! Stand firm in the trusting the process! Be courageous! Be built different!
 14. Let all that ya do be done in show love.
 15. now I beg ya, brothers (ya get it the house of Stephanas, that it is the first fruits of Achaia, and that they have set themselves to help out out the set apart fam),
 16. that ya also be in subjection to such, and to everyone who helps in the work and labors.
 17. I be hyped at the coming of Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus; for that which was lacking on your part, they supplied.
 18. For they refreshed my spirit and yours. so basically acknowledge those who are like that.
 19. The assemblies of Asia greet ya. Aquila and Priscilla greet ya much in the boss, together with the assembly that is in their house.
 20. All the brothers greet ya. Greet one another with a set apart kiss.
 21. This greeting is by me, Paul, with my own hand.
 22. If any man doesn’t show love the boss Jesus the huge set apart, let him be accursed. come through, boss!
 23. The God's show love of the boss Jesus the huge set apart be with ya.
 24. My show love to all of ya in the huge set apart Jesus. facts.
