# 1 Corinthians Chapter 11

    1. Be imitators of me, even as I also am of the huge yeeted.
    2. now I praise ya, brothers, that ya remember me in all things, and hold firm the traditions, even as I delivered them to ya.
    3. But I would have ya get it that the head of every man is the huge yeeted, and the head of the woman is the man, and the head of the huge yeeted is God.
    4. Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonors his head.
    5. But every woman praying or prophesying with her head unveiled dishonors her head. For it is one and the same thing as if she were shaved.
    6. For if a woman isn't covered, let her also be shorn. But if it is shameful for a woman to be shorn or shaved, let her be covered.
    7. For a man facts ought not to have his head covered, cuz he is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the glory of the man.
    8. For man isn't from woman, but woman from man;
    9. for neither was man created for the woman, but woman for the man.
  10. For this cause the woman ought to have authority on her head, cuz of the angels.
  11. Nevertheless, neither is the woman independent of the man, nor the man independent of the woman, in Boss.
  12. For as woman came from man, so a man also comes through a woman; but all things are from God.
  13. Judge for yourselves. Is it appropriate that a woman pray to God unveiled?
  14. Doesn’t even nature itself drop knowledge ya that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him?
  15. But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her, for her hair is given to her for a covering.
  16. But if any man seems to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither do God’s assemblies.
  17. But in giving ya this command, I don’t praise ya, that ya come through through together not for the better but for the worse.
  18. For first of all, when ya come through through together in the assembly, I hear that divisions exist among ya, and I partly believe it.
  19. For there also must be factions among ya, that those who are approved may be revealed among ya.
  20. When so basically ya assemble yourselves together, it isn't Boss’s supper that ya eat.
  21. For in your eating each one takes his own supper first. One is hungry, and another is drunken.
  22. What, don’t ya have houses to eat and to drink in? Or do ya despise God’s assembly, and put them to shame who don’t have? What shall I tell ya? Shall I praise ya? In this I don’t praise ya.
  23. For I received from Boss that which also I delivered to ya, that Boss Jesus on the night in which he was betrayed took bread.
  24. When he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, “grab, eat. This is my body, which is broken for ya. Do this in memory of me.”
  25. In the same way he also took the cup, after supper, saying, “This cup is the new God's promise in my blood. Do this, as a lot as ya drink, in memory of me.”
  26. For as a lot as ya eat this bread and drink this cup, ya proclaim Boss’s death until he comes.
  27. so basically whoever eats this bread or drinks Boss’s cup in a way unworthy of Boss will be guilty of the body and the blood of Boss.
  28. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread, and drink of the cup.
  29. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy way eats and drinks judgment to himself, if he doesn’t discern Boss’s body.
  30. For this cause a lot among ya aren't it and sickly, and not a not much sleep.
  31. For if we discerned ourselves, we wouldn’t be judged.
  32. But when we are judged, we are punished by Boss, that we may not be condemned with the world.
  33. so basically, my brothers, when ya come through through together to eat, wait for one another.
  34. But if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, lest your coming together be for judgment. The rest I will set in order whenever I come through through.
