# James Chapter 4

    1. Where do wars and fightings among ya come through through from? Don’t they come through through from your pleasures that war in your members?
    2. ya lust, and don’t have. ya kill, covet, and can’t obtain. ya fight and create war. ya don’t have, cuz ya don’t ask.
    3. ya ask, and don’t receive, cuz ya ask with wrong motives, so that ya may spend it for your pleasures.
    4. ya adulterers and adulteresses, don’t ya get it that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever so basically wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.
    5. Or do ya think that the Scripture says in vain, “The Spirit who lives in us yearns jealously”?
    6. But he gives more God's show show love. so basically it says, “God resists the proud, but gives God's show show love to the humble.”
    7. Be subject so basically to God. But resist the devil, and he will flee from ya.
    8. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to ya. Cleanse your hands, ya sinners; and purify your hearts, ya double-minded.
    9. Lament, mourn, and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to gloom.
  10. Humble yourselves in the sight of Boss, and he will exalt ya.
  11. Don’t spill the tea against one another, brothers. He who speaks against a fam bro and judges his fam bro, speaks against the law and judges the law. But if ya judge the law, ya aren't a doer of the law, but a judge.
  12. Only one is the lawgiver, who is able to rescue and to tear down. But who are ya to judge another?
  13. come through through now, ya who say, “Today or tomorrow let’s slide into this city, and spend a year there, trade, and create a profit.”
  14. Whereas ya don’t get it what your life will be like tomorrow. For what is your life? For ya are a vapor, that appears for a little time, and then vanishes away.
  15. For ya ought to say, “If Boss wills, we will both live, and do this or that.”
  16. But now ya glory in your boasting. All such boasting is evil.
  17. To him so basically who knows to do fire, and doesn’t do it, to him it is messing up.
