# James Chapter 5

  1. come through now, ya stacked, weep and howl for your miseries that are coming on ya.
  2. Your riches are corrupted and your garments are moth-eaten.
  3. Your gold and your silver are corroded, and their corrosion will be for a testimony against ya, and will eat your flesh like fire. ya have laid up your treasure in the last days.
  4. check this out,, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which ya have kept back by fraud, cry out, and the cries of those who reaped have entered into the ears of the boss of Armies.
  5. ya have lived delicately on the earth, and taken your pleasure. ya have nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter.
  6. ya have condemned, ya have murdered the doing what's right one. He doesn’t resist ya.
  7. Be patient so basically, brothers, until the coming of the boss. check this out,, the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient over it, until it receives the early and late rain.
  8. ya also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the boss is at hand.
  9. Don’t grumble, brothers, against one another, so that ya won’t be judged. check this out,, the judge stands at the door.
 10. grab, brothers, for an example of suffering and of patience, the prophets who spoke in the name of the boss.
 11. check this out,, we call them blessed up who endured. ya have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the boss in the outcome, and how the boss is full of compassion and mercy.
 12. But above all things, my brothers, don’t swear, neither by heaven, nor by the earth, nor by any other oath; but let your “yes” be “yes,” and your “no,” “no;” so that ya don’t fall into hypocrisy.
 13. Is any among ya suffering? Let him pray. Is any cheerful? Let him sing praises.
 14. Is any among ya sick? Let him call for the elders of the assembly, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the boss,
 15. and the talking to God of trusting the process will heal him who is sick, and the boss will raise him up. If he has committed sins, he will be forgiven.
 16. Confess your offenses to one another, and pray for one another, that ya may be healed. The insistent talking to God of a doing what's right person is powerfully effective.
 17. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it didn’t rain on the earth for three years and six months.
 18. He prayed again, and the sky gave rain, and the earth brought forth its fruit.
 19. Brothers, if any among ya wanders from the truth, and someone turns him back,
 20. let him get it that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will rescue a soul from death, and will cover a multitude of sins.
