# Ezra Chapter 1

    1. now in the first year of Cyrus ruler of Persia, that the word of Yahweh by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Cyrus ruler of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his God's squad, and put it also in writing, saying,
    2. “Thus says Cyrus ruler of Persia, ‘Yahweh, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth; and he has commanded me to put together him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah.
    3. Whoever there is among ya of all his people, may his God be with him, and let him slide up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and put together the house of Yahweh, the God of Israel (he is God), which is in Jerusalem.
    4. Whoever is left, in any place where he lives, let the men of his place help out out him with silver, with gold, with goods, and with animals, besides the freewill giving to God for the house of God which is in Jerusalem.’”
    5. then the heads of fathers’ households of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests, and the Levites, even all whose spirit God had stirred to slide up rose up to put together the house of Yahweh which is in Jerusalem.
    6. All those who were around them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, and with animals, and with precious things, besides all that was willingly offered.
    7. Also Cyrus the ruler brought forth the vessels of the house of Yahweh, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought out of Jerusalem, and had put in the house of his gods;
    8. even those, Cyrus ruler of Persia brought out by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and numbered them to Sheshbazzar, the prince of Judah.
    9. This is the number of them: thirty platters of gold, one thousand platters of silver, twenty-nine knives,
  10. thirty bowls of gold, silver bowls of a second sort four hundred and ten, and other vessels one thousand.
  11. All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four hundred. Sheshbazzar brought all these up, when the captives were brought up from Babylon to Jerusalem.
