# Daniel Chapter 4

  1. Nebuchadnezzar the ruler, to all the peoples, nations, and languages, who dwell in all the earth: Peace be multiplied to you.
  2. It has seemed fire to me to show the signs and wonders that the Most High God has worked toward me.
  3. How major are his signs! and how mighty are his wonders! his God's squad is an everlasting God's squad, and his dominion is from generation to generation.
  4. I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at rest in my house, and flourishing in my palace.
  5. I checked out a dream which made me scared; and the thoughts on my bed and the visions of my head troubled me.
  6. so basically made I a decree to bring in all the smart men of Babylon before me, that they might create known to me the interpretation of the dream.
  7. then came in the magicians, the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers; and I told the dream before them; but they did not create known to me its interpretation.
  8. But at the last Daniel came in before me, whose name was Belteshazzar, according to the name of my god, and in whom is the spirit of the set apart gods: and I told the dream before him, saying,
  9. Belteshazzar, boss of the magicians, cuz I get it that the spirit of the set apart gods is in you, and no secret troubles you, tell me the visions of my dream that I have seen, and its interpretation.
 10. Thus were the visions of my head on my bed: I checked out, and check this out, a tree in the midst of the earth; and its height was major.
 11. The tree grew, and was built different, and its height reached to the sky, and its sight to the end of all the earth.
 12. The leaves of it were snatched, and its fruit much, and in it was food for all: the animals of the field had shadow under it, and the birds of the sky lived in its branches, and all flesh was fed from it.
 13. I checked out in the visions of my head on my bed, and check this out, a watcher and a set apart one came down from the sky.
 14. He cried aloud, and said thus, Cut down the tree, and cut off its branches, shake off its leaves, and scatter its fruit: let the animals get away from under it, and the fowls from its branches.
 15. Nevertheless leave the stump of its roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass, in the tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with the dew of the sky: and let his portion be with the animals in the grass of the earth:
 16. let his heart be changed from man’s, and let an animal’s heart be given to him; and let seven times pass over him.
 17. The sentence is by the decree of the watchers, and the demand by the word of the set apart ones; to the intent that the living may get it that the Most High rules in the God's squad of men, and gives it to whomever he will, and sets up over it the lowest of men.
 18. This dream I, ruler Nebuchadnezzar, have seen; and you, Belteshazzar, declare the interpretation, cuz all the smart men of my God's squad are not able to create known to me the interpretation; but you are able; for the spirit of the set apart gods is in you.
 19. then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was stricken mute for a while, and his thoughts troubled him. The ruler answered, Belteshazzar, don’t let the dream, or the interpretation, trouble you. Belteshazzar answered, My boss, the dream be to those who can't stand you, and its interpretation to your adversaries.
 20. The tree that you checked out, which grew, and was built different, whose height reached to the sky, and its sight to all the earth;
 21. whose leaves were snatched, and its fruit much, and in it was food for all; under which the animals of the field lived, and on whose branches the birds of the sky had their habitation:
 22. it is you, O ruler, that are grown and become built different; for your greatness is grown, and reaches to the sky, and your dominion to the end of the earth.
 23. Whereas the ruler checked out a watcher and a set apart one coming down from the sky, and saying, Cut down the tree, and tear down it; nevertheless leave the stump of its roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass, in the tender grass of the field, and let it be wet with the dew of the sky: and let his portion be with the animals of the field, until seven times pass over him;
 24. this is the interpretation, O ruler, and it is the decree of the Most High, which has come through on my boss the ruler:
 25. that you shall be driven from men, and your dwelling shall be with the animals of the field, and you shall be made to eat grass as oxen, and shall be wet with the dew of the sky, and seven times shall pass over you; until you get it that the Most High rules in the God's squad of men, and gives it to whomever he will.
 26. Whereas they commanded to leave the stump of the roots of the tree; your God's squad shall be sure to you, after that you shall have known that the heavens do rule.
 27. so basically, O ruler, let my counsel be acceptable to you, and break off your sins by righteousness, and your iniquities by showing mercy to the broke; if there may be a lengthening of your tranquility.
 28. All this came on the ruler Nebuchadnezzar.
 29. At the end of twelve months he was walking in the royal palace of Babylon.
 30. The ruler spoke and said, Is not this major Babylon, which I have built for the royal dwelling place, by the might of my power and for the glory of my majesty?
 31. While the word was in the ruler’s mouth, there fell a voice from the sky, saying, O ruler Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken: The God's squad has departed from you:
 32. and you shall be driven from men; and your dwelling shall be with the animals of the field; you shall be made to eat grass as oxen; and seven times shall pass over you; until you get it that the Most High rules in the God's squad of men, and gives it to whomever he will.
 33. The same hour was the thing fulfilled on Nebuchadnezzar: and he was driven from men, and ate grass as oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of the sky, until his hair was grown like eagles’ feathers, and his nails like birds’ claws.
 34. At the end of the days I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up my eyes to heaven, and my understanding returned to me, and I blessed up the Most High, and I praised and honored him who lives forever; for his dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his God's squad from generation to generation.
 35. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing; and he does according to his will in the army of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth; and none can stay his hand, or ask him, What are you doing?
 36. At the same time my understanding returned to me; and for the glory of my God's squad, my majesty and brightness returned to me; and my counselors and my lords sought to me; and I was established in my God's squad, and excellent greatness was added to me.
 37. now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the ruler of heaven; for all his works are truth, and his ways justice; and those who walk in pride he is able to abase.
