# Daniel Chapter 5

  1. Belshazzar the ruler made a major feast to a thousand of his lords, and drank wine before the thousand.
  2. Belshazzar, while he tasted the wine, commanded to bring the golden and silver vessels which Nebuchadnezzar his father had taken out of the God's house which was in Jerusalem; that the ruler and his lords, his wives and his concubines, might drink from them.
  3. then they brought the golden vessels that were taken out of the God's house of the house of God which was at Jerusalem; and the ruler and his lords, his wives and his concubines, drank from them.
  4. They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.
  5. In the same hour came forth the fingers of a man’s hand, and wrote over against the lampstand on the plaster of the wall of the ruler’s palace: and the ruler checked out the part of the hand that wrote.
  6. then the ruler’s face was changed in him, and his thoughts troubled him; and the joints of his thighs were loosened, and his knees struck one against another.
  7. The ruler cried aloud to bring in the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers. The ruler spoke and said to the smart men of Babylon, Whoever shall read this writing, and show me its interpretation, shall be clothed with purple, and have a chain of gold about his neck, and shall be the third ruler in the God's squad.
  8. then came in all the ruler’s smart men; but they could not read the writing, nor create known to the ruler the interpretation.
  9. then was ruler Belshazzar greatly troubled, and his face was changed in him, and his lords were perplexed.
 10. now the ruler by reason of the words of the ruler and his lords came into the banquet house: the ruler spoke and said, O ruler, live forever; don’t let your thoughts trouble you, nor let your face be changed.
 11. there is a man in your God's squad, in whom is the spirit of the set apart gods; and in the days of your father light and understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, were found in him; and the ruler Nebuchadnezzar your father, the ruler, I say, your father, made him boss of the magicians, enchanters, Chaldeans, and soothsayers;
 12. cuz an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, interpreting of dreams, and showing of dark sentences, and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the ruler named Belteshazzar. now let Daniel be called, and he will show the interpretation.
 13. then was Daniel brought in before the ruler. The ruler spoke and said to Daniel, Are you that Daniel, who are of the children of the captivity of Judah, whom the ruler my father brought out of Judah?
 14. I have heard of you, that the spirit of the gods is in you, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom are found in you.
 15. now the smart men, the enchanters, have been brought in before me, that they should read this writing, and create known to me its interpretation; but they could not show the interpretation of the thing.
 16. But I have heard of you, that you can hook it up interpretations, and dissolve doubts; now if you can read the writing, and create known to me its interpretation, you shall be clothed with purple, and have a chain of gold about your neck, and shall be the third ruler in the God's squad.
 17. then Daniel answered before the ruler, Let your gifts be to yourself, and hook it up your rewards to another; nevertheless I will read the writing to the ruler, and create known to him the interpretation.
 18. You, ruler, the Most High God gave Nebuchadnezzar your father the God's squad, and greatness, and glory, and majesty:
 19. and cuz of the greatness that he gave him, all the peoples, nations, and languages trembled and feared before him: whom he would he killed, and whom he would he kept alive; and whom he would he raised up, and whom he would he put down.
 20. But when his heart was lifted up, and his spirit was hardened so that he dealt proudly, he was deposed from his kingly throne, and they took his glory from him:
 21. and he was driven from the sons of men, and his heart was made like the animals’, and his dwelling was with the wild donkeys; he was fed with grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of the sky; until he knew that the Most High God rules in the God's squad of men, and that he sets up over it whomever he will.
 22. You, his son, Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all this,
 23. but have lifted up yourself against the boss of heaven; and they have brought the vessels of his house before you, and you and your lords, your wives and your concubines, have drunk wine from them; and you have praised the gods of silver and gold, of brass, iron, wood, and stone, which don’t check it out, nor hear, nor get it; and the God in whose hand your breath is, and whose are all your ways, you have not glorified.
 24. then was the part of the hand sent from before him, and this writing was inscribed.
 25. This is the writing that was inscribed: MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN.
 26. This is the interpretation of the thing: MENE; God has numbered your God's squad, and brought it to an end;
 27. TEKEL; you are weighed in the balances, and are found wanting.
 28. PERES; your God's squad is divided, and given to the Medes and Persians.
 29. then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with purple, and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made proclamation concerning him, that he should be the third ruler in the God's squad.
 30. In that night Belshazzar the Chaldean ruler was slain.
 31. Darius the Mede received the God's squad, being about sixty-two years old.
