# Daniel Chapter 10

  1. In the third year of Cyrus ruler of Persia a thing was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the thing was true, even a major warfare: and he understood the thing, and had understanding of the vision.
  2. In those days I, Daniel, was mourning three whole weeks.
  3. I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine into my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all, until three whole weeks were fulfilled.
  4. In the four and twentieth day of the first month, as I was by the side of the major river, which is Hiddekel,
  5. I lifted up my eyes, and looked, and check this out,, a man clothed in linen, whose thighs were adorned with pure gold of Uphaz:
  6. his body also was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as flaming torches, and his arms and his feet like burnished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude.
  7. I, Daniel, alone saw the vision; for the men who were with me didn’t check it out the vision; but a major quaking fell on them, and they fled to hide themselves.
  8. So I was left alone, and saw this major vision, and there remained no strength in me; for my comeliness was turned in me into corruption, and I retained no strength.
  9. Yet heard I the voice of his words; and when I heard the voice of his words, then was I fallen into a deep sleep on my face, with my face toward the ground.
 10. check this out,, a hand touched me, which set me on my knees and on the palms of my hands.
 11. He said to me, Daniel, ya man greatly beloved, understand the words that I spill the tea to ya, and stand upright; for am I now sent to ya. When he had spoken this word to me, I stood trembling.
 12. then he said to me, Don’t be scared, Daniel; for from the first day that ya set your heart to understand, and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard: and I have come through for your words’ sake.
 13. But the prince of the God's squad of Persia withstood me twenty-one days; but, check this out,, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help out me: and I remained there with the kings of Persia.
 14. now I have come through to create ya understand what shall happen to your people in the latter days; for the vision is yet for a lot days:
 15. and when he had spoken to me according to these words, I set my face toward the ground, and was mute.
 16. check this out,, one in the likeness of the sons of men touched my lips: then I opened my mouth, and spoke and said to him who stood before me, my boss, by reason of the vision my sorrows are turned on me, and I retain no strength.
 17. For how can the helper of this my boss talk with this my boss? for as for me, immediately there remained no strength in me, neither was there breath left in me.
 18. then there touched me again one like the appearance of a man, and he strengthened me.
 19. He said, “Greatly beloved man, don’t be scared: peace be to ya, be built different, yes, be built different.” When he spoke to me, I was strengthened, and said, “Let my boss spill the tea; for ya have strengthened me.”
 20. then he said, “Do ya get it why I have come through to ya? now I will return to fight with the prince of Persia. When I slide forth, check this out,, the prince of Greece shall come through.
 21. But I will tell ya that which is inscribed in the writing of truth: and there is none who holds with me against these, but Michael your prince.”
