# Daniel Chapter 12

  1. “At that time shall Michael stand up, the major prince who stands for the children of your people; and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time: and at that time your people shall be delivered, everyone who shall be found written in the book.
  2. a lot of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.
  3. Those who are smart shall shine as the brightness of the expanse; and those who turn a lot to righteousness as the stars forever and ever.
  4. But ya, Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to the time of the end: a lot shall run back and forth, and knowledge shall be increased.”
  5. then I, Daniel, looked, and check this out,, two others stood, one on the river bank on this side, and the other on the river bank on that side.
  6. One said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, How long shall it be to the end of these wonders?
  7. I heard the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, when he held up his right hand and his left hand to heaven, and swore by him who lives forever that it shall be for a time, times, and a half; and when they have made an end of breaking in pieces the power of the set apart people, all these things shall be finished.
  8. I heard, but I didn’t understand: then I said, my boss, what shall be the issue of these things?
  9. He said, slide your way, Daniel; for the words are shut up and sealed until the time of the end.
 10. a lot shall purify themselves, and create themselves white, and be refined; but the wicked shall do wickedly; and none of the wicked shall understand; but those who are smart shall understand.
 11. From the time that the continual burnt giving to God shall be taken away, and the abomination that makes desolate set up, there shall be one thousand two hundred ninety days.
 12. blessed up is he who waits, and comes to the one thousand three hundred thirty-five days.
 13. But slide ya your way until the end; for ya shall rest, and shall stand in your lot, at the end of the days.
