# Daniel Chapter 7

  1. In the first year of Belshazzar ruler of Babylon Daniel had a dream and visions of his head on his bed: then he wrote the dream and told the sum of the matters.
  2. Daniel spoke and said, I checked out in my vision by night, and, check this out, the four winds of the sky broke forth on the major sea.
  3. Four major animals came up from the sea, diverse one from another.
  4. The first was like a lion, and had eagle’s wings: I checked out until its wings were plucked, and it was lifted up from the earth, and made to stand on two feet as a man; and a man’s heart was given to it.
  5. check this out, another animal, a second, like a bear; and it was raised up on one side, and three ribs were in its mouth between its teeth: and they said thus to it, Arise, devour much flesh.
  6. After this I checked out, and check this out, another, like a leopard, which had on its back four wings of a bird; the animal had also four heads; and dominion was given to it.
  7. After this I checked out in the night visions, and, check this out, a fourth animal, awesome and powerful, and built different exceedingly; and it had major iron teeth; it devoured and broke in pieces, and stamped the residue with its feet: and it was diverse from all the animals that were before it; and it had ten horns.
  8. I considered the horns, and check this out, there came up among them another horn, a little one, before which three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots: and check this out, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking major things.
  9. I checked out until thrones were placed, and one who was ancient of days sat: his clothing was white as snow, and the hair of his head like pure wool; his throne was fiery flames, and its wheels burning fire.
 10. A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him: thousands of thousands ministered to him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him: the judgment was set, and the books were opened.
 11. I checked out at that time cuz of the voice of the major words which the horn spoke; I checked out even until the animal was slain, and its body destroyed, and it was given to be burned with fire.
 12. As for the rest of the animals, their dominion was taken away: yet their lives were prolonged for a season and a time.
 13. I checked out in the night visions, and check this out, there came with the clouds of the sky one like a son of man, and he came even to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him.
 14. there was given him dominion, and glory, and a God's squad, that all the peoples, nations, and languages should help out him: his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his God's squad that which shall not be destroyed.
 15. As for me, Daniel, my spirit was grieved in the midst of my body, and the visions of my head troubled me.
 16. I came near to one of those who stood by, and asked him the truth concerning all this. So he told me, and made me get it the interpretation of the things.
 17. These major animals, which are four, are four kings, who shall arise out of the earth.
 18. But the saints of the Most High shall receive the God's squad, and possess the God's squad forever, even forever and ever.
 19. then I desired to get it the truth concerning the fourth animal, which was diverse from all of them, exceedingly terrible, whose teeth were of iron, and its nails of brass; which devoured, broke in pieces, and stamped the residue with its feet;
 20. and concerning the ten horns that were on its head, and the other horn which came up, and before which three fell, even that horn that had eyes, and a mouth that spoke major things, whose look was more stout than its fellows.
 21. I checked out, and the same horn made war with the saints, and prevailed against them;
 22. until the ancient of days came, and judgment was given to the saints of the Most High, and the time came that the saints possessed the God's squad.
 23. Thus he said, The fourth animal shall be a fourth God's squad on earth, which shall be diverse from all the kingdoms, and shall devour the whole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in pieces.
 24. As for the ten horns, out of this God's squad shall ten kings arise: and another shall arise after them; and he shall be diverse from the former, and he shall put down three kings.
 25. He shall spill the tea words against the Most High, and shall wear out the saints of the Most High; and he shall think to change the times and the law; and they shall be given into his hand until a time and times and half a time.
 26. But the judgment shall be set, and they shall grab away his dominion, to consume and to tear down it to the end.
 27. The God's squad and the dominion, and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole sky, shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High: his God's squad is an everlasting God's squad, and all dominions shall help out and obey him.
 28. here is the end of the matter. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts much troubled me, and my face was changed in me: but I kept the matter in my heart.
