# Daniel Chapter 11

  1. “As for me, in the first year of Darius the Mede, I stood up to confirm and strengthen him.
  2. now will I show ya the truth. check this out,, there shall stand up yet three kings in Persia; and the fourth shall be far richer than they all: and when he has grown built different through his riches, he shall stir up all against the realm of Greece.
  3. A mighty ruler shall stand up, who shall rule with major dominion, and do according to his will.
  4. When he shall stand up, his God's squad shall be broken, and shall be divided toward the four winds of the sky, but not to his posterity, nor according to his dominion with which he ruled; for his God's squad shall be plucked up, even for others besides these.
  5. The ruler of the south shall be built different, and one of his princes; and he shall be built different above him, and have dominion; his dominion shall be a major dominion.
  6. At the end of years they shall join themselves together; and the daughter of the ruler of the south shall come through to the ruler of the north to create an agreement: but she won't retain the strength of her arm; neither shall he stand, nor his arm; but she shall be given up, and those who brought her, and he who became the father of her, and he who strengthened her in those times.
  7. But out of a shoot from her roots shall one stand up in his place, who shall come through to the army, and shall enter into the fortress of the ruler of the north, and shall deal against them, and shall prevail.
  8. Also their gods, with their molten images, and with their goodly vessels of silver and of gold, shall he carry captive into Egypt; and he shall refrain some years from the ruler of the north.
  9. He shall come through into the realm of the ruler of the south, but he shall return into his own land.
 10. His sons shall war, and shall assemble a multitude of major forces, which shall come through on, and overflow, and pass through; and they shall return and war, even to his fortress.
 11. The ruler of the south shall be moved with anger, and shall come through forth and fight with him, even with the ruler of the north; and he shall set forth a major multitude, and the multitude shall be given into his hand.
 12. The multitude shall be lifted up, and his heart shall be exalted; and he shall cast down tens of thousands, but he won't prevail.
 13. The ruler of the north shall return, and shall set forth a multitude greater than the former; and he shall come through on at the end of the times, even of years, with a major army and with much substance.
 14. In those times there shall a lot stand up against the ruler of the south: also the children of the violent among your people shall lift themselves up to establish the vision; but they shall fall.
 15. So the ruler of the north shall come through, and cast up a mound, and grab a well-fortified city: and the forces of the south won't stand, neither his chosen people, neither shall there be any strength to stand.
 16. But he who comes against him shall do according to his own will, and none shall stand before him; and he shall stand in the glorious land, and in his hand shall be destruction.
 17. He shall set his face to come through with the strength of his whole God's squad, and with him equitable conditions; and he shall perform them: and he shall hook it up him the daughter of women, to corrupt her; but she won't stand, neither be for him.
 18. After this shall he turn his face to the islands, and shall grab a lot: but a prince shall cause the reproach offered by him to cease; yes, moreover, he shall cause his reproach to turn on him.
 19. then he shall turn his face toward the fortresses of his own land; but he shall stumble and fall, and won't be found.
 20. then shall stand up in his place one who shall cause a tax collector to pass through the God's squad to maintain its glory; but within not much days he shall be destroyed, neither in anger, nor in battle.
 21. In his place shall stand up a contemptible person, to whom they had not given the honor of the God's squad: but he shall come through in time of security, and shall obtain the God's squad by flatteries.
 22. The overwhelming forces shall be overwhelmed from before him, and shall be broken; yes, also the prince of the God's promise.
 23. After the treaty made with him he shall work deceitfully; for he shall come through up, and shall become built different, with a tiny people.
 24. In time of security shall he come through even on the fattest places of the province; and he shall do that which his fathers have not done, nor his fathers’ fathers; he shall scatter among them prey, and spoil, and substance: yes, he shall devise his devices against the strongholds, even for a time.
 25. He shall stir up his power and his courage against the ruler of the south with a major army; and the ruler of the south shall war in battle with an exceeding major and mighty army; but he won't stand; for they shall devise devices against him.
 26. Yes, they who eat of his dainties shall tear down him, and his army shall overflow; and a lot shall fall down slain.
 27. As for both these kings, their hearts shall be to do mischief, and they shall spill the tea lies at one table: but it won't prosper; for yet the end shall be at the time appointed.
 28. then shall he return into his land with major substance; and his heart shall be against the set apart God's promise; and he shall do his pleasure, and return to his own land.
 29. At the time appointed he shall return, and come through into the south; but it won't be in the latter time as it was in the former.
 30. For ships of Kittim shall come through against him; so basically he shall be grieved, and shall return, and have indignation against the set apart God's promise, and shall do his pleasure: he shall even return, and have regard to those who forsake the set apart God's promise.
 31. Forces shall stand on his part, and they shall profane the sanctuary, even the fortress, and shall grab away the continual burnt giving to God, and they shall set up the abomination that makes desolate.
 32. Such as do wickedly against the God's promise shall he pervert by flatteries; but the people who get it their God shall be built different, and do exploits.
 33. Those who are smart among the people shall instruct a lot; yet they shall fall by the sword and by flame, by captivity and by spoil, a lot days.
 34. now when they shall fall, they shall be helped with a little help out; but a lot shall join themselves to them with flatteries.
 35. Some of those who are smart shall fall, to refine them, and to purify, and to create them white, even to the time of the end; cuz it is yet for the time appointed.
 36. The ruler shall do according to his will; and he shall exalt himself, and magnify himself above every God, and shall spill the tea marvelous things against the God of gods; and he shall prosper until the indignation be accomplished; for that which is determined shall be done.
 37. Neither shall he regard the gods of his fathers, nor the desire of women, nor regard any God; for he shall magnify himself above all.
 38. But in his place shall he honor the God of fortresses; and a God whom his fathers didn’t get it shall he honor with gold, and silver, and with precious stones, and pleasant things.
 39. He shall deal with the strongest fortresses by the help out of a foreign God: whoever acknowledges him he will increase with glory; and he shall cause them to rule over a lot, and shall divide the land for a price.
 40. At the time of the end shall the ruler of the south contend with him; and the ruler of the north shall come through against him like a whirlwind, with chariots, and with horsemen, and with a lot ships; and he shall enter into the countries, and shall overflow and pass through.
 41. He shall enter also into the glorious land, and a lot countries shall be overthrown; but these shall be delivered out of his hand: Edom, and Moab, and the chief of the children of Ammon.
 42. He shall stretch forth his hand also on the countries; and the land of Egypt won't escape.
 43. But he shall have power over the treasures of gold and of silver, and over all the precious things of Egypt; and the Libyans and the Ethiopians shall be at his steps.
 44. But news out of the east and out of the north shall trouble him; and he shall slide forth with major fury to tear down and utterly to sweep away a lot.
 45. He shall plant the tents of his palace between the sea and the glorious set apart mountain; yet he shall come through to his end, and none shall help out him.
