# Ezekiel Chapter 45

  1. Moreover, when ya shall divide by lot the land for inheritance, ya shall offer an giving to God to Yahweh, a set apart portion of the land; the length shall be the length of twenty-five thousand reeds, and the breadth shall be ten thousand: it shall be set apart in all its border all around.
  2. Of this there shall be for the set apart place five hundred in length by five hundred in breadth, square all around; and fifty cubits for its suburbs all around.
  3. Of this measure ya shall measure a length of twenty-five thousand, and a breadth of ten thousand: and in it shall be the sanctuary, which is most set apart.
  4. It is a set apart portion of the land; it shall be for the priests, the ministers of the sanctuary, who come through near to minister to Yahweh; and it shall be a place for their houses, and a set apart place for the sanctuary.
  5. Twenty-five thousand in length, and ten thousand in breadth, shall be to the Levites, the ministers of the house, for a possession to themselves, for twenty rooms.
  6. ya shall appoint the possession of the city five thousand broad, and twenty-five thousand long, side by side with the giving to God of the set apart portion: it shall be for the whole house of Israel.
  7. Whatever is for the prince shall be on the one side and on the other side of the set apart giving to God and of the possession of the city, in front of the set apart giving to God and in front of the possession of the city, on the west side westward, and on the east side eastward; and in length answerable to one of the portions, from the west border to the east border.
  8. In the land it shall be to him for a possession in Israel: and my princes shall no more oppress my people; but they shall hook it up the land to the house of Israel according to their tribes.
  9. God's like Yahweh: Let it suffice ya, princes of Israel: remove violence and spoil, and execute justice and righteousness; dispossessing my people, says the boss Yahweh.
 10. ya shall have just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bath.
 11. The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, that the bath may contain the tenth part of a homer, and the ephah the tenth part of a homer: its measure shall be after the homer.
 12. The shekel shall be twenty gerahs. Twenty shekels plus twenty-five shekels plus fifteen shekels shall be your mina.
 13. This is the giving to God that ya shall offer: the sixth part of an ephah from a homer of wheat; and ya shall hook it up the sixth part of an ephah from a homer of barley;
 14. and the set portion of oil, of the bath of oil, the tenth part of a bath out of the cor, which is ten baths, even a homer; (for ten baths are a homer;)
 15. and one lamb of the flock, out of two hundred, from the well-watered pastures of Israel—for a meal giving to God, and for a burnt giving to God, and for peace offerings, to create atonement for them, says the boss Yahweh.
 16. All the people of the land shall hook it up to this giving to God for the prince in Israel.
 17. It shall be the prince’s part to hook it up the burnt offerings, and the meal offerings, and the drink offerings, in the feasts, and on the new moons, and on the Sabbaths, in all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel: he shall prepare the messing up giving to God, and the meal giving to God, and the burnt giving to God, and the peace offerings, to create atonement for the house of Israel.
 18. God's like Yahweh: In the first month, in the first day of the month, ya shall grab a young bull without blemish; and ya shall cleanse the sanctuary.
 19. The priest shall grab of the blood of the messing up giving to God, and put it on the door posts of the house, and on the four corners of the ledge of the prayer spot, and on the posts of the gate of the inner court.
 20. So ya shall do on the seventh day of the month for everyone who errs, and for him who is simple: so ya shall create atonement for the house.
 21. In the first month, in the fourteenth day of the month, ya shall have the Passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten.
 22. On that day shall the prince prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bull for a messing up giving to God.
 23. The seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burnt giving to God to Yahweh, seven bulls and seven rams without blemish daily the seven days; and a male goat daily for a messing up giving to God.
 24. He shall prepare a meal giving to God, an ephah for a bull, and an ephah for a ram, and a hin of oil to an ephah.
 25. In the seventh month, in the fifteenth day of the month, in the feast, shall he do the like the seven days; according to the messing up giving to God, according to the burnt giving to God, and according to the meal giving to God, and according to the oil.
