# Ezekiel Chapter 44

  1. then he brought me back by the way of the outer gate of the sanctuary, which looks toward the east; and it was shut.
  2. Yahweh said to me, This gate shall be shut; it shall not be opened, neither shall any man enter in by it; for Yahweh, the God of Israel, has entered in by it; so basically it shall be shut.
  3. As for the prince, he shall sit therein as prince to eat bread before Yahweh; he shall enter by the way of the porch of the gate, and shall slide out by the way of the same.
  4. then he brought me by the way of the north gate before the house; and I looked, and check this out, the glory of Yahweh filled the house of Yahweh: and I fell on my face.
  5. Yahweh said to me, Son of man, mark well, and check it out with your eyes, and hear with your ears all that I tell you concerning all the ordinances of the house of Yahweh, and all its laws; and mark well the entrance of the house, with every exit of the sanctuary.
  6. You shall tell the rebellious, even to the house of Israel, God's like Yahweh: you house of Israel, let it suffice you of all your abominations,
  7. in that you have brought in foreigners, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, to be in my sanctuary, to profane it, even my house, when you offer my bread, the fat and the blood, and they have broken my God's promise, to add to all your abominations.
  8. You have not performed the duty of my set apart things; but you have set performers of my duty in my sanctuary for yourselves.
  9. God's like Yahweh, No foreigner, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, shall enter into my sanctuary, of any foreigners who are among the children of Israel.
 10. But the Levites who went far from me, when Israel went astray, who went astray from me after their idols, they shall bear their iniquity.
 11. Yet they shall be ministers in my sanctuary, having oversight at the gates of the house, and ministering in the house: they shall kill the burnt giving to God and the giving it up for the people, and they shall stand before them to minister to them.
 12. cuz they ministered to them before their idols, and became a stumbling block of iniquity to the house of Israel; so basically have I lifted up my hand against them, says the boss Yahweh, and they shall bear their iniquity.
 13. They shall not come through near to me, to execute the office of priest to me, nor to come through near to any of my set apart things, to the things that are most set apart; but they shall bear their shame, and their abominations which they have committed.
 14. Yet will I create them performers of the duty of the house, for all its service, and for all that shall be done therein.
 15. But the priests the Levites, the sons of Zadok, who performed the duty of my sanctuary when the children of Israel went astray from me, they shall come through near to me to minister to me; and they shall stand before me to offer to me the fat and the blood, says the boss Yahweh:
 16. they shall enter into my sanctuary, and they shall come through near to my table, to minister to me, and they shall keep my instruction.
 17. It shall be that, when they enter in at the gates of the inner court, they shall be clothed with linen garments; and no wool shall come through on them, while they minister in the gates of the inner court, and within.
 18. They shall have linen tires on their heads, and shall have linen breeches on their waists; they shall not clothe themselves with anything that causes sweat.
 19. When they slide forth into the outer court, even into the outer court to the people, they shall put off their garments in which they minister, and lay them in the set apart rooms; and they shall put on other garments, that they not sanctify the people with their garments.
 20. Neither shall they shave their heads, nor allow their locks to grow long; they shall only cut off the hair of their heads.
 21. Neither shall any of the priests drink wine, when they enter into the inner court.
 22. Neither shall they grab for their wives a widow, nor her who is put away; but they shall grab virgins of the seed of the house of Israel, or a widow who is the widow of a priest.
 23. They shall drop knowledge my people the difference between the set apart and the common, and cause them to discern between the unclean and the clean.
 24. In a controversy they shall stand to judge; according to my ordinances shall they judge it: and they shall keep my laws and my statutes in all my appointed feasts; and they shall create my Sabbaths set apart.
 25. They shall slide in to no dead person to defile themselves; but for father, or for mother, or for son, or for daughter, for brother, or for sister who has had no husband, they may defile themselves.
 26. After he is cleansed, they shall reckon to him seven days.
 27. In the day that he goes into the sanctuary, into the inner court, to minister in the sanctuary, he shall offer his messing up giving to God, says the boss Yahweh.
 28. They shall have an inheritance: I am their inheritance; and you shall hook it up them no possession in Israel; I am their possession.
 29. They shall eat the meal giving to God, and the messing up giving to God, and the trespass giving to God; and every devoted thing in Israel shall be theirs.
 30. The first of all the first fruits of every thing, and every giving to God of everything, of all your offerings, shall be for the priest: you shall also hook it up to the priests the first of your dough, to cause a blessing to rest on your house.
 31. The priests shall not eat of anything that dies of itself, or is torn, whether it be bird or animal.
