# Ezekiel Chapter 25

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, set your face toward the children of Ammon, and prophesy against them:
  3. and tell the children of Ammon, Hear what God was like Yahweh: God's like Yahweh, cuz you said, Aha, against my sanctuary, when it was profaned; and against the land of Israel, when it was made desolate; and against the house of Judah, when they went into captivity:
  4. so basically, check this out, I will deliver you to the children of the east for a possession, and they shall set their encampments in you, and create their dwellings in you; they shall eat your fruit, and they shall drink your milk.
  5. I will create Rabbah a stable for camels, and the children of Ammon a resting place for flocks: and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  6. For God's like Yahweh: cuz you have clapped your hands, and stamped with the feet, and rejoiced with all the despite of your soul against the land of Israel;
  7. so basically, check this out, I have stretched out my hand on you, and will deliver you for a spoil to the nations; and I will cut you off from the peoples, and I will cause you to perish out of the countries: I will tear down you; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  8. God's like Yahweh: cuz Moab and Seir say, check this out, the house of Judah is like all the nations;
  9. so basically, check this out, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from his cities which are on his frontiers, the glory of the country, Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon, and Kiriathaim,
 10. to the children of the east, to slide against the children of Ammon; and I will hook it up them for a possession, that the children of Ammon may not be remembered among the nations.
 11. and I will execute judgments on Moab; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 12. God's like Yahweh: cuz Edom has dealt against the house of Judah by taking vengeance, and has greatly offended, and revenged himself on them;
 13. so basically God's like Yahweh, I will stretch out my hand on Edom, and will cut off man and animal from it; and I will create it desolate from Teman; even to Dedan shall they fall by the sword.
 14. I will lay my vengeance on Edom by the hand of my people Israel; and they shall do in Edom according to my anger and according to my wrath; and they shall get it my vengeance, says the boss Yahweh.
 15. God's like Yahweh: cuz the Philistines have dealt by revenge, and have taken vengeance with despite of soul to tear down with perpetual enmity;
 16. so basically God's like Yahweh, check this out, I will stretch out my hand on the Philistines, and I will cut off the Cherethites, and tear down the remnant of the sea coast.
 17. I will execute major vengeance on them with wrathful rebukes; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I shall lay my vengeance on them.
