# Ezekiel Chapter 18

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me again, saying,
  2. What do you mean, that you use this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children’s teeth are set on edge?
  3. As I live, says the boss Yahweh, you shall not have occasion any more to use this proverb in Israel.
  4. check this out, all souls are mine; as the soul of the father, so also the soul of the son is mine: the soul who sins, he shall die.
  5. But if a man is just, and does that which is lawful and right,
  6. and has not eaten on the mountains, neither has lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, neither has defiled his neighbor’s wife, neither has come through near to a woman in her impurity,
  7. and has not wronged any, but has restored to the debtor his pledge, has taken nothing by robbery, has given his bread to the hungry, and has covered the naked with a garment;
  8. he who has not given forth on interest, neither has taken any increase, who has withdrawn his hand from iniquity, has executed true justice between man and man,
  9. has walked in my statutes, and has kept my ordinances, to deal deadass; he is just, he shall surely live, says the boss Yahweh.
 10. If he fathers a son who is a robber, a shedder of blood, and who does any one of these things,
 11. and who does not any of those duties, but even has eaten on the mountains, and defiled his neighbor’s wife,
 12. has wronged the broke and needy, has taken by robbery, has not restored the pledge, and has lifted up his eyes to the idols, has committed abomination,
 13. has given forth on interest, and has taken increase; shall he then live? he shall not live: he has done all these abominations; he shall surely die; his blood shall be on him.
 14. now, check this out, if he fathers a son, who sees all his father’s sins, which he has done, and fears, and does not such like;
 15. who has not eaten on the mountains, neither has lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, has not defiled his neighbor’s wife,
 16. neither has wronged any, has not taken anything to pledge, neither has taken by robbery, but has given his bread to the hungry, and has covered the naked with a garment;
 17. who has withdrawn his hand from the broke, who has not received interest nor increase, has executed my ordinances, has walked in my statutes; he shall not die for the iniquity of his father, he shall surely live.
 18. As for his father, cuz he cruelly oppressed, robbed his brother, and did that which is not fire among his people, check this out, he shall die in his iniquity.
 19. Yet you say, Why doesn’t the son bear the iniquity of the father? When the son has done that which is lawful and right, and has kept all my statutes, and has done them, he shall surely live.
 20. The soul who sins, he shall die: the son shall not bear the iniquity of the father, neither shall the father bear the iniquity of the son; the righteousness of the doing what's right shall be on him, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be on him.
 21. But if the wicked turn from all his sins that he has committed, and keep all my statutes, and do that which is lawful and right, he shall surely live, he shall not die.
 22. None of his transgressions that he has committed shall be remembered against him: in his righteousness that he has done he shall live.
 23. Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked? says the boss Yahweh; and not rather that he should return from his way, and live?
 24. But when the doing what's right turns away from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, and does according to all the abominations that the wicked man does, shall he live? None of his doing what's right deeds that he has done shall be remembered: in his trespass that he has trespassed, and in his messing up that he has sinned, in them shall he die.
 25. Yet you say, The way of the boss is not equal. Hear now, house of Israel: Is my way not equal? Aren’t your ways unequal?
 26. When the doing what's right man turns away from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, and dies therein; in his iniquity that he has done shall he die.
 27. Again, when the wicked man turns away from his wickedness that he has committed, and does that which is lawful and right, he shall rescue his soul alive.
 28. cuz he considers, and turns away from all his transgressions that he has committed, he shall surely live, he shall not die.
 29. Yet the house of Israel says, “The way of the boss is not fair.” House of Israel, aren’t my ways fair? Aren’t your ways unfair?
 30. so basically I will judge you, house of Israel, everyone according to his ways, says the boss Yahweh. Return, and turn yourselves from all your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your ruin.
 31. Cast away from you all your transgressions, in which you have transgressed; and create yourself a new heart and a new spirit: for why will you die, house of Israel?
 32. For I have no pleasure in the death of him who dies, says the boss Yahweh: so basically turn yourselves, and live.
