# Ezekiel Chapter 47

  1. He brought me back to the door of the house; and check this out,, waters issued out from under the threshold of the house eastward; (for the forefront of the house was toward the east;) and the waters came down from under, from the right side of the house, on the south of the prayer spot.
  2. then he brought me out by the way of the gate northward, and led me round by the way outside to the outer gate, by the way of the gate that looks toward the east; and check this out,, there ran out waters on the right side.
  3. When the man went forth eastward with the line in his hand, he measured one thousand cubits, and he caused me to pass through the waters, waters that were to the ankles.
  4. Again he measured one thousand, and caused me to pass through the waters, waters that were to the knees. Again he measured one thousand, and caused me to pass through the waters, waters that were to the waist.
  5. Afterward he measured one thousand; and it was a river that I could not pass through; for the waters were risen, waters to swim in, a river that could not be passed through.
  6. He said to me, Son of man, have ya seen this? then he brought me, and caused me to return to the bank of the river.
  7. now when I had returned, check this out,, on the bank of the river were hella a lot trees on the one side and on the other.
  8. then he said to me, These waters issue forth toward the eastern region, and shall slide down into the Arabah; and they shall slide toward the sea; into the sea shall the waters slide which were made to issue forth; and the waters shall be healed.
  9. It shall happen, that every living creature which swarms, in every place where the rivers come through, shall live; and there shall be a hella major multitude of fish; for these waters have come through there, and the waters of the sea shall be healed, and everything shall live wherever the river comes.
 10. It shall happen, that fishermen shall stand by it: from En Gedi even to En Eglaim shall be a place for the spreading of nets; their fish shall be after their kinds, as the fish of the major sea, exceeding a lot.
 11. But the miry places of it, and its marshes, won't be healed; they shall be given up to salt.
 12. By the river on its bank, on this side and on that side, shall grow every tree for food, whose leaf won't wither, neither shall its fruit fail: it shall bring forth new fruit every month, cuz its waters issue out of the sanctuary; and its fruit shall be for food, and its leaf for healing.
 13. God's like Yahweh: This shall be the border, by which ya shall divide the land for inheritance according to the twelve tribes of Israel: Joseph shall have two portions.
 14. ya shall inherit it, one as well as another; for I swore to hook it up it to your fathers: and this land shall fall to ya for inheritance.
 15. This shall be the border of the land: On the north side, from the major sea, by the way of Hethlon, to the entrance of Zedad;
 16. Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is between the border of Damascus and the border of Hamath; Hazer Hatticon, which is by the border of Hauran.
 17. The border from the sea, shall be Hazar Enon at the border of Damascus; and on the north northward is the border of Hamath. This is the north side.
 18. The east side, between Hauran and Damascus and Gilead, and the land of Israel, shall be the Jordan; from the north border to the east sea ya shall measure. This is the east side.
 19. The south side southward shall be from Tamar as far as the waters of Meriboth Kadesh, to the brook of Egypt, to the major sea. This is the south side southward.
 20. The west side shall be the major sea, from the south border as far as over against the entrance of Hamath. This is the west side.
 21. So ya shall divide this land to ya according to the tribes of Israel.
 22. It shall happen, that ya shall divide it by lot for an inheritance to ya and to the aliens who live among ya, who shall father children among ya; and they shall be to ya as the native-born among the children of Israel; they shall have inheritance with ya among the tribes of Israel.
 23. It shall happen, that in what tribe the stranger lives, there ya shall hook it up him his inheritance, says the boss Yahweh.
