# Ezekiel Chapter 21

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem, and drop your word toward the sanctuaries, and prophesy against the land of Israel;
  3. and tell the land of Israel, Thus says Yahweh: check this out,, I am against ya, and will draw forth my sword out of its sheath, and will cut off from ya the doing what's right and the wicked.
  4. Seeing then that I will cut off from ya the doing what's right and the wicked, so basically shall my sword slide forth out of its sheath against all flesh from the south to the north:
  5. and all flesh shall get it that I, Yahweh, have drawn forth my sword out of its sheath; it won't return any more.
  6. Sigh so basically, ya son of man; with the breaking of your thighs and with bitterness ya will sigh before their eyes.
  7. It shall be, when they tell ya, Why do ya sigh? that ya shall say, cuz of the news, for it comes; and every heart shall melt, and all hands shall be feeble, and every spirit shall faint, and all knees shall be not it as water: check this out,, it comes, and it shall be done, says the boss Yahweh.
  8. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  9. Son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus says Yahweh: Say, A sword, a sword, it is sharpened, and also furbished;
 10. it is sharpened that it may create a slaughter; it is furbished that it may be as lightning: shall we then create mirth? the rod of my son, it condemns every tree.
 11. It is given to be furbished, that it may be handled: the sword, it is sharpened, yes, it is furbished, to hook it up it into the hand of the killer.
 12. Cry and wail, son of man; for it is on my people, it is on all the princes of Israel: they are delivered over to the sword with my people; strike so basically on your thigh.
 13. For there is a trial; and what if even the rod that condemns shall be no more? says the boss Yahweh.
 14. ya so basically, son of man, prophesy, and strike your hands together; and let the sword be doubled the third time, the sword of the deadly wounded: it is the sword of the major one who is deadly wounded, which enters into their rooms.
 15. I have set the threatening sword against all their gates, that their heart may melt, and their stumblings be multiplied: ah! it is made as lightning, it is pointed for slaughter.
 16. Gather yourselves together, slide to the right, set yourselves in array, slide to the left, wherever your face is set.
 17. I will also strike my hands together, and I will cause my wrath to rest: I, Yahweh, have spoken it.
 18. The word of Yahweh came to me again, saying,
 19. Also, ya son of man, appoint two ways, that the sword of the ruler of Babylon may come through; they both shall come through forth out of one land: and mark out a place, mark it out at the head of the way to the city.
 20. ya shall appoint a way for the sword to come through to Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and to Judah in Jerusalem the fortified.
 21. For the ruler of Babylon stood at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination: he shook the arrows back and forth, he consulted the teraphim, he looked in the liver.
 22. In his right hand was the divination for Jerusalem, to set battering rams, to open the mouth in the slaughter, to lift up the voice with shouting, to set battering rams against the gates, to cast up mounds, to put together forts.
 23. It shall be to them as a false divination in their sight, who have sworn oaths to them; but he brings iniquity to memory, that they may be taken.
 24. so basically God's like Yahweh: cuz ya have made your iniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions are uncovered, so that in all your doings your sins appear; cuz ya have come through to memory, ya shall be taken with the hand.
 25. ya, deadly wounded wicked one, the prince of Israel, whose day has come through, in the time of the iniquity of the end,
 26. God's like Yahweh: Remove the turban, and grab off the crown; this shall be no more the same; exalt that which is low, and abase that which is high.
 27. I will overturn, overturn, overturn it: this also shall be no more, until he come through whose right it is; and I will hook it up it him.
 28. ya, son of man, prophesy, and say, God's like Yahweh concerning the children of Ammon, and concerning their reproach; and say, A sword, a sword is drawn, for the slaughter it is furbished, to cause it to devour, that it may be as lightning;
 29. while they check it out for ya false visions, while they divine lies to ya, to lay ya on the necks of the wicked who are deadly wounded, whose day has come through in the time of the iniquity of the end.
 30. Cause it to return into its sheath. In the place where ya were created, in the land of your birth, will I judge ya.
 31. I will pour out my indignation on ya; I will blow on ya with the fire of my wrath; and I will deliver ya into the hand of brutish men, skillful to tear down.
 32. ya shall be for fuel to the fire; your blood shall be in the midst of the land; ya shall be remembered no more: for I, Yahweh, have spoken it.
