# Ezekiel Chapter 28

  1. The word of Yahweh came again to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, tell the prince of Tyre, God's like Yahweh: cuz your heart is lifted up, and you have said, I am a god, I sit in the seat of God, in the midst of the seas; yet you are man, and not God, though you set your heart as the heart of God—
  3. check this out, you are wiser than Daniel; there is no secret that is hidden from you;
  4. by your wisdom and by your understanding you have gotten yourself riches, and have gotten gold and silver into your treasures;
  5. by your major wisdom and by your traffic you have increased your riches, and your heart is lifted up cuz of your riches—
  6. so basically God's like Yahweh: cuz you have set your heart as the heart of God,
  7. so basically, check this out, I will bring strangers on you, the terrible of the nations; and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of your wisdom, and they shall defile your brightness.
  8. They shall bring you down to the pit; and you shall die the death of those who are slain, in the heart of the seas.
  9. Will you yet say before him who kills you, I am God? but you are man, and not God, in the hand of him who wounds you.
 10. You shall die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of strangers: for I have spoken it, says the boss Yahweh.
 11. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 12. Son of man, grab up a lamentation over the ruler of Tyre, and tell him, God's like Yahweh: You seal up the sum, full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty.
 13. You were in Eden, the garden of God; every precious stone adorned you: ruby, topaz, emerald, chrysolite, onyx, jasper, sapphire, turquoise, and beryl. Gold work of tambourines and of pipes was in you. In the day that you were created they were prepared.
 14. You were the anointed cherub who covers: and I set you, so that you were on the set apart mountain of God; you have walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire.
 15. You were perfect in your ways from the day that you were created, until unrighteousness was found in you.
 16. By the abundance of your traffic they filled the midst of you with violence, and you have sinned: so basically I have cast you as profane out of the mountain of God; and I have destroyed you, covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.
 17. Your heart was lifted up cuz of your beauty; you have corrupted your wisdom by reason of your brightness: I have cast you to the ground; I have laid you before kings, that they may check it out you.
 18. By the multitude of your iniquities, in the unrighteousness of your traffic, you have profaned your sanctuaries; so basically have I brought forth a fire from the midst of you; it has devoured you, and I have turned you to ashes on the earth in the sight of all those who check it out you.
 19. All those who get it you among the peoples shall be astonished at you: you have become a terror, and you shall nevermore have any being.
 20. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 21. Son of man, set your face toward Sidon, and prophesy against it,
 22. and say, God's like Yahweh: check this out, I am against you, Sidon; and I will be glorified in the midst of you; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I shall have executed judgments in her, and shall be sanctified in her.
 23. For I will send pestilence into her, and blood into her streets; and the wounded shall fall in the midst of her, with the sword on her on every side; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 24. there shall be no more a pricking brier to the house of Israel, nor a hurting thorn of any that are around them, that scorned them; and they shall get it that I am the boss Yahweh.
 25. God's like Yahweh: When I shall have gathered the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered, and shall be sanctified in them in the sight of the nations, then shall they dwell in their own land which I gave to my helper Jacob.
 26. They shall dwell securely therein; yes, they shall put together houses, and plant vineyards, and shall dwell securely, when I have executed judgments on all those who do them despite all around them; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh their God.
