# Ezekiel Chapter 12

  1. The word of Yahweh also came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, you dwell in the midst of the rebellious house, who have eyes to check it out, and don’t check it out, who have ears to hear, and don’t hear; for they are a rebellious house.
  3. so basically, you son of man, prepare your stuff for moving, and move by day in their sight; and you shall move from your place to another place in their sight: it may be they will consider, though they are a rebellious house.
  4. You shall bring forth your stuff by day in their sight, as stuff for moving; and you shall slide forth yourself at even in their sight, as when men slide forth into exile.
  5. Dig through the wall in their sight, and carry your stuff out that way.
  6. In their sight you shall bear it on your shoulder, and carry it forth in the dark; you shall cover your face, so that you don’t check it out the land: for I have set you for a sign to the house of Israel.
  7. I did so as I was commanded: I brought forth my stuff by day, as stuff for removing, and in the even I dug through the wall with my hand; I brought it forth in the dark, and bore it on my shoulder in their sight.
  8. In the morning came the word of Yahweh to me, saying,
  9. Son of man, has not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, said to you, What are you doing?
 10. Say to them, God's like Yahweh: This burden concerns the prince in Jerusalem, and all the house of Israel among whom they are.
 11. Say, I am your sign: like as I have done, so shall it be done to them; they shall slide into exile, into captivity.
 12. The prince who is among them shall bear on his shoulder in the dark, and shall slide forth: they shall dig through the wall to carry out thereby: he shall cover his face, cuz he shall not check it out the land with his eyes.
 13. My net also will I spread on him, and he shall be taken in my snare; and I will bring him to Babylon to the land of the Chaldeans; yet shall he not check it out it, though he shall die there.
 14. I will scatter toward every wind all who are around him to help out him, and all his bands; and I will draw out the sword after them.
 15. They shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I shall disperse them among the nations, and scatter them through the countries.
 16. But I will leave a not much men of them from the sword, from the famine, and from the pestilence; that they may declare all their abominations among the nations where they come through; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 17. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 18. Son of man, eat your bread with quaking, and drink your water with trembling and with fearfulness;
 19. and tell the people of the land, God's like Yahweh concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the land of Israel: They shall eat their bread with fearfulness, and drink their water in dismay, that her land may be desolate, and all that is therein, cuz of the violence of all those who dwell therein.
 20. The cities that are inhabited shall be laid waste, and the land shall be a desolation; and you shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 21. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 22. Son of man, what is this proverb that you have in the land of Israel, saying, The days are prolonged, and every vision fails?
 23. Tell them so basically, God's like Yahweh: I will create this proverb to cease, and they shall no more use it as a proverb in Israel; but tell them, The days are at hand, and the fulfillment of every vision.
 24. For there shall be no more any false vision nor flattering divination within the house of Israel.
 25. For I am Yahweh; I will spill the tea, and the word that I shall spill the tea shall be performed; it shall be no more deferred: for in your days, rebellious house, will I spill the tea the word, and will perform it, says the boss Yahweh.
 26. Again the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 27. Son of man, check this out, they of the house of Israel say, The vision that he sees is for a lot day to come through, and he prophesies of times that are far off.
 28. so basically tell them, God's like Yahweh: None of my words shall be deferred any more, but the word which I shall spill the tea shall be performed, says the boss Yahweh.
