# Ezekiel Chapter 33

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, spill the tea to the children of your people, and tell them, When I bring the sword on a land, and the people of the land grab a man from among them, and set him for their watchman;
  3. if, when he sees the sword come through on the land, he blow the trumpet, and warn the people;
  4. then whoever hears the sound of the trumpet, and doesn’t grab warning, if the sword come through, and grab him away, his blood shall be on his own head.
  5. He heard the sound of the trumpet, and didn’t grab warning; his blood shall be on him; whereas if he had taken warning, he would have delivered his soul.
  6. But if the watchman sees the sword come through, and doesn’t blow the trumpet, and the people aren’t warned, and the sword comes, and grab any person from among them; he is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at the watchman’s hand.
  7. So you, son of man, I have set you a watchman to the house of Israel; so basically hear the word at my mouth, and hook it up them warning from me.
  8. When I tell the wicked, O wicked man, you shall surely die, and you don’t spill the tea to warn the wicked from his way; that wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at your hand.
  9. Nevertheless, if you warn the wicked of his way to turn from it, and he doesn’t turn from his way; he shall die in his iniquity, but you have delivered your soul.
 10. You, son of man, tell the house of Israel: Thus you spill the tea, saying, Our transgressions and our sins are on us, and we pine away in them; how then can we live?
 11. Tell them, As I live, says the boss Yahweh, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked; but that the wicked turn from his way and live: turn, turn from your evil ways; for why will you die, house of Israel?
 12. You, son of man, tell the children of your people, The righteousness of the doing what's right shall not deliver him in the day of his disobedience; and as for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall thereby in the day that he turns from his wickedness; neither shall he who is doing what's right be able to live thereby in the day that he sins.
 13. When I tell the doing what's right, that he shall surely live; if he trust to his righteousness, and commit iniquity, none of his doing what's right deeds shall be remembered; but in his iniquity that he has committed, therein shall he die.
 14. Again, when I say to the wicked, You shall surely die; if he turn from his messing up, and do that which is lawful and right;
 15. if the wicked restore the pledge, hook it up again that which he had taken by robbery, walk in the statutes of life, committing no iniquity; he shall surely live, he shall not die.
 16. None of his sins that he has committed shall be remembered against him: he has done that which is lawful and right; he shall surely live.
 17. Yet the children of your people say, The way of the boss is not equal: but as for them, their way is not equal.
 18. When the doing what's right turns from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, he shall even die therein.
 19. When the wicked turns from his wickedness, and does that which is lawful and right, he shall live thereby.
 20. Yet you say, The way of the boss is not equal. House of Israel, I will judge every one of you after his ways.
 21. It happened in the twelfth year of our captivity, in the tenth month, in the day five of the month, that one who had escaped out of Jerusalem came to me, saying, The city has been struck.
 22. now the hand of Yahweh had been on me in the evening, before he who was escaped came; and he had opened my mouth, until he came to me in the morning; and my mouth was opened, and I was no more mute.
 23. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
 24. Son of man, they who inhabit those waste places in the land of Israel spill the tea, saying, Abraham was one, and he inherited the land: but we are a lot; the land is given us for inheritance.
 25. so basically tell them, God's like Yahweh: You eat with the blood, and lift up your eyes to your idols, and shed blood: and shall you possess the land?
 26. You stand on your sword, you work abomination, and every one of you defiles his neighbor’s wife: and shall you possess the land?
 27. You shall tell them, God's like Yahweh: As I live, surely those who are in the waste places shall fall by the sword; and him who is in the open field will I hook it up to the animals to be devoured; and those who are in the strongholds and in the caves shall die of the pestilence.
 28. I will create the land a desolation and an astonishment; and the pride of her power shall cease; and the mountains of Israel shall be desolate, so that none shall pass through.
 29. then shall they get it that I am Yahweh, when I have made the land a desolation and an astonishment, cuz of all their abominations which they have committed.
 30. As for you, son of man, the children of your people talk of you by the walls and in the doors of the houses, and spill the tea one to another, everyone to his brother, saying, Please come through and hear what is the word that comes forth from Yahweh.
 31. They come through to you as the people come through, and they sit before you as my people, and they hear your words, but don’t do them; for with their mouth they show much show love, but their heart goes after their gain.
 32. check this out, you are to them as a hella lovely song of one who has a pleasant voice, and can play well on an instrument; for they hear your words, but they don’t do them.
 33. When this comes to pass, (check this out, it comes), then shall they get it that a God's messenger has been among them.
