# Ezekiel Chapter 34

  1. The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy, and tell them, even to the shepherds, God's like Yahweh: Woe to the shepherds of Israel who feed themselves! Shouldn’t the shepherds feed the sheep?
  3. ya eat the fat, and ya clothe yourself with the wool, ya kill the fatlings; but ya don’t feed the sheep.
  4. ya haven’t strengthened the diseased, neither have ya healed that which was sick, neither have ya bound up that which was broken, neither have ya brought back that which was driven away, neither have ya sought that which was lost; but with force and with rigor ya have ruled over them.
  5. They were scattered, cuz there was no shepherd; and they became food to all the animals of the field, and were scattered.
  6. My sheep wandered through all the mountains, and on every high hill: yes, my sheep were scattered on all the surface of the earth; and there was none who searched or sought.
  7. so basically, ya shepherds, hear the word of Yahweh:
  8. As I live, says the boss Yahweh, surely cuz my sheep became a prey, and my sheep became food to all the animals of the field, cuz there was no shepherd, neither did my shepherds search for my sheep, but the shepherds fed themselves, and didn’t feed my sheep;
  9. so basically, ya shepherds, hear the word of Yahweh:
 10. God's like Yahweh: check this out,, I am against the shepherds; and I will require my sheep at their hand, and cause them to cease from feeding the sheep; neither shall the shepherds feed themselves any more; and I will deliver my sheep from their mouth, that they may not be food for them.
 11. For God's like Yahweh: check this out,, I myself, even I, will search for my sheep, and will seek them out.
 12. As a shepherd seeks out his flock in the day that he is among his sheep that are scattered abroad, so will I seek out my sheep; and I will deliver them out of all places where they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day.
 13. I will bring them out from the peoples, and gather them from the countries, and will bring them into their own land; and I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the watercourses, and in all the inhabited places of the country.
 14. I will feed them with fire pasture; and on the mountains of the height of Israel shall their fold be: there shall they lie down in a fire fold; and on fat pasture shall they feed on the mountains of Israel.
 15. I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I will cause them to lie down, says the boss Yahweh.
 16. I will seek that which was lost, and will bring back that which was driven away, and will bind up that which was broken, and will strengthen that which was sick: but the fat and the built different I will tear down; I will feed them in justice.
 17. As for ya, O my flock, God's like Yahweh: check this out,, I judge between sheep and sheep, the rams and the male goats.
 18. Does it seem a tiny thing to ya to have fed on the fire pasture, but ya must tread down with your feet the residue of your pasture? and to have drunk of the clear waters, but ya must foul the residue with your feet?
 19. As for my sheep, they eat that which ya have trodden with your feet, and they drink that which ya have fouled with your feet.
 20. so basically God's like Yahweh to them: check this out,, I, even I, will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep.
 21. cuz ya thrust with side and with shoulder, and push all the diseased with your horns, until ya have scattered them abroad;
 22. so basically will I rescue my flock, and they shall no more be a prey; and I will judge between sheep and sheep.
 23. I will set up one shepherd over them, and he shall feed them, even my helper David; he shall feed them, and he shall be their shepherd.
 24. I, Yahweh, will be their God, and my helper David prince among them; I, Yahweh, have spoken it.
 25. I will create with them a God's promise of peace, and will cause evil animals to cease out of the land; and they shall dwell securely in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods.
 26. I will create them and the places around my hill a blessing; and I will cause the shower to come through down in its season; there shall be showers of blessing.
 27. The tree of the field shall yield its fruit, and the earth shall yield its increase, and they shall be secure in their land; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh, when I have broken the bars of their yoke, and have delivered them out of the hand of those who made slaves of them.
 28. They shall no more be a prey to the nations, neither shall the animals of the earth devour them; but they shall dwell securely, and none shall create them scared.
 29. I will raise up to them a plantation for renown, and they shall be no more consumed with famine in the land, neither bear the shame of the nations any more.
 30. They shall get it that I, Yahweh, their God am with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, says the boss Yahweh.
 31. ya my sheep, the sheep of my pasture, are men, and I am your God, says the boss Yahweh.
