# Ezekiel Chapter 5

  1. ya, son of man, grab a sharp sword; ya shall grab it as a barber’s razor to ya, and shall cause it to pass on your head and on your beard: then grab balances to weigh, and divide the hair.
  2. A third part ya shall burn in the fire in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are fulfilled; and ya shall grab a third part, and strike with the sword around it; and a third part ya shall scatter to the wind, and I will draw out a sword after them.
  3. ya shall grab of it a not much in number, and bind them in your skirts.
  4. Of these again ya shall grab, and cast them into the midst of the fire, and burn them in the fire; from it shall a fire come through forth into all the house of Israel.
  5. God's like Yahweh: This is Jerusalem; I have set her in the midst of the nations, and countries are around her.
  6. She has rebelled against my ordinances in doing wickedness more than the nations, and against my statutes more than the countries that are around her; for they have rejected my ordinances, and as for my statutes, they have not walked in them.
  7. so basically God's like Yahweh: cuz ya are turbulent more than the nations that are around ya, and have not walked in my statutes, neither have kept my ordinances, neither have done after the ordinances of the nations that are around ya;
  8. so basically God's like Yahweh: check this out,, I, even I, am against ya; and I will execute judgments in the midst of ya in the sight of the nations.
  9. I will do in ya that which I have not done, and whereunto I won't do any more the like, cuz of all your abominations.
 10. so basically the fathers shall eat the sons in the midst of ya, and the sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments on ya; and the whole remnant of ya will I scatter to all the winds.
 11. so basically, as I live, says the boss Yahweh, surely, cuz ya have defiled my sanctuary with all your detestable things, and with all your abominations, so basically will I also diminish ya; neither shall my eye spare, and I also will have no pity.
 12. A third part of ya shall die with the pestilence, and with famine shall they be consumed in the midst of ya; and a third part shall fall by the sword around ya; and a third part I will scatter to all the winds, and will draw out a sword after them.
 13. Thus shall my anger be accomplished, and I will cause my wrath toward them to rest, and I shall be comforted; and they shall get it that I, Yahweh, have spoken in my zeal, when I have accomplished my wrath on them.
 14. Moreover I will create ya a desolation and a reproach among the nations that are around ya, in the sight of all that pass by.
 15. So it shall be a reproach and a taunt, an instruction and an astonishment, to the nations that are around ya, when I shall execute judgments on ya in anger and in wrath, and in wrathful rebukes; (I, Yahweh, have spoken it;)
 16. when I shall send on them the evil arrows of famine, that are for destruction, which I will send to tear down ya: and I will increase the famine on ya, and will break your staff of bread;
 17. and I will send on ya famine and evil animals, and they shall bereave ya; and pestilence and blood shall pass through ya; and I will bring the sword on ya: I, Yahweh, have spoken it.
