# Ezekiel Chapter 35

  1. Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
  2. Son of man, set your face against Mount Seir, and prophesy against it,
  3. and tell it, God's like Yahweh: check this out,, I am against ya, Mount Seir, and I will stretch out my hand against ya, and I will create ya a desolation and an astonishment.
  4. I will lay your cities waste, and ya shall be desolate; and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh.
  5. cuz ya have had a perpetual enmity, and have given over the children of Israel to the power of the sword in the time of their calamity, in the time of the iniquity of the end;
  6. so basically, as I live, says the boss Yahweh, I will prepare ya for blood, and blood shall pursue ya: since ya have not hated blood, so basically blood shall pursue ya.
  7. Thus will I create Mount Seir an astonishment and a desolation; and I will cut off from it him who passes through and him who returns.
  8. I will fill its mountains with its slain: in your hills and in your valleys and in all your watercourses shall they fall who are slain with the sword.
  9. I will create ya a perpetual desolation, and your cities won't be inhabited; and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh.
 10. cuz ya have said, These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we will possess it; whereas Yahweh was there:
 11. so basically, as I live, says the boss Yahweh, I will do according to your anger, and according to your envy which ya have shown out of your hatred against them; and I will create myself known among them, when I shall judge ya.
 12. ya shall get it that I, Yahweh, have heard all your insults which ya have spoken against the mountains of Israel, saying, They are laid desolate, they have been given us to devour.
 13. ya have magnified yourselves against me with your mouth, and have multiplied your words against me: I have heard it.
 14. God's like Yahweh: When the whole earth rejoices, I will create ya desolate.
 15. As ya rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel, cuz it was desolate, so will I do to ya: ya shall be desolate, Mount Seir, and all Edom, even all of it; and they shall get it that I am Yahweh.
