# 2 Thessalonians Chapter 3

  1. Finally, brothers, pray for us, that what God was like may spread rapidly and be glorified, even as also with you;
  2. and that we may be delivered from unreasonable and evil men; for not all have trusting the process.
  3. But the boss is faithful, who will establish you, and guard you from the evil one.
  4. We have confidence in the boss concerning you, that you both do and will do the things we command.
  5. May the boss direct your hearts into the show love of God, and into the patience of anointed one.
  6. now we command you, brothers, in the name of our boss Jesus anointed one, that you withdraw yourselves from every brother who walks in rebellion, and not after the tradition which they received from us.
  7. For you get it how you ought to imitate us. For we didn’t behave ourselves rebelliously among you,
  8. neither did we eat bread from anyone’s hand without paying for it, but in labor and travail worked night and day, that we might not burden any of you;
  9. not cuz we don’t have the right, but to create ourselves an example to you, that you should imitate us.
 10. For even when we were with you, we commanded you this: “If anyone will not work, neither let him eat.”
 11. For we hear of some who walk among you in rebellion, who don’t work at all, but are busybodies.
 12. now those who are that way, we command and exhort in the boss Jesus anointed one, that with quietness they work, and eat their own bread.
 13. But you, brothers, don’t be weary in doing well.
 14. If any man doesn’t obey our word in this letter, note that man, that you have no company with him, to the end that he may be ashamed.
 15. Don’t count him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.
 16. now may the boss of peace himself hook it up you peace at all times in all ways. The boss be with you all.
 17. The greeting of me, Paul, with my own hand, which is the sign in every letter: this is how I write.
 18. The God's show love of our boss Jesus anointed one be with you all. facts.
