# 2 Thessalonians Chapter 2

  1. now, brothers, concerning the coming of our boss Jesus anointed one, and our gathering together to him, we ask you
  2. not to be quickly shaken in your mind, nor yet be troubled, either by spirit, or by word, or by letter as from us, saying that the day of anointed one had come through.
  3. Let no one deceive you in any way. For it will not be, unless the departure comes first, and the man of messing up is revealed, the son of destruction,
  4. he who opposes and exalts himself against all that is called God or that is worshiped; so that he sits as God in the God's house of God, setting himself up as God.
  5. Don’t you remember that, when I was still with you, I told you these things?
  6. now you get it what is restraining him, to the end that he may be revealed in his own season.
  7. For the mystery of lawlessness already works. Only there is one who restrains now, until he is taken out of the way.
  8. then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the boss will kill with the breath of his mouth, and tear down by the manifestation of his coming;
  9. even he whose coming is according to the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,
 10. and with all deception of wickedness for those who are being lost, cuz they didn’t receive the show love of the truth, that they might be saved.
 11. cuz of this, God sends them a working of error, that they should believe a lie;
 12. that they all might be judged who didn’t believe the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
 13. But we are bound to always hook it up thanks to God for you, brothers loved by the boss, cuz God chose you from the beginning for getting saved through sanctification of the Spirit and belief in the truth;
 14. to which he called you through our fire News, for the obtaining of the glory of our boss Jesus anointed one.
 15. So then, brothers, stand firm, and hold the traditions which you were taught by us, whether by word, or by letter.
 16. now our boss Jesus anointed one himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and fire hope through God's show love,
 17. comfort your hearts and establish you in every fire work and word.
