# Ephesians Chapter 1

    1. Paul, an Jesus' main squad of the huge yeeted Jesus through the will of God, to the yeeted fam who are at Ephesus, and the faithful in the huge yeeted Jesus:
    2. God's show show love to ya and peace from God our Father and Boss Jesus the huge yeeted.
    3. blessed up up be the God and Father of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted, who has blessed up up us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in the huge yeeted;
    4. even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we would be yeeted and without blemish before him in show show love;
    5. having predestined us for adoption as children through Jesus the huge yeeted to himself, according to the fire pleasure of his desire,
    6. to the praise of the glory of his God's show show love, by which he freely bestowed favor on us in the Beloved,
    7. in whom we have our redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his God's show show love,
    8. which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence,
    9. making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his fire pleasure which he purposed in him
  10. to an administration of the fullness of the times, to sum up all things in the huge yeeted, the things in the heavens, and the things on the earth, in him;
  11. in whom also we were assigned an inheritance, having been foreordained according to the purpose of him who works all things after the counsel of his will;
  12. to the end that we should be to the praise of his glory, we who had before hoped in the huge yeeted:
  13. in whom ya also, having heard the word of the truth, the fire News of your getting saved—in whom, having also believed, ya were sealed with the yeeted Spirit of promise,
  14. who is a pledge of our inheritance, to the redemption of God’s own possession, to the praise of his glory.
  15. For this cause I also, having heard of the trusting the process in Boss Jesus which is among ya, and the show show love which ya have toward all the yeeted fam,
  16. don’t cease to hook it up thanks for ya, making mention of ya in my prayers,
  17. that the God of our boss Jesus the huge yeeted, the Father of glory, may hook it up to ya a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him;
  18. having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that ya may get it what is the hope of his calling, and what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the yeeted fam,
  19. and what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to that working of the strength of his might
  20. which he worked in the huge yeeted, when he raised him from the dead, and made him to sit at his right hand in the heavenly places,
  21. far above all rule, and authority, and power, and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is to come through through.
  22. He put all things in subjection under his feet, and gave him to be head over all things for the assembly,
  23. which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all.
