# Ephesians Chapter 2

    1. ya were made alive when ya were dead in transgressions and sins,
    2. in which ya once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the children of disobedience;
    3. among whom we also all once lived in the lust of our flesh, doing the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest.
    4. But God, being stacked in mercy, for his major show show love with which he loved us,
    5. even when we were dead through our trespasses, made us alive together with the huge yeeted (by God's show show love ya have been saved),
    6. and raised us up with him, and made us to sit with him in the heavenly places in the huge yeeted Jesus,
    7. that in the ages to come through through he might show the exceeding riches of his God's show show love in kindness toward us in the huge yeeted Jesus;
    8. for by God's show show love ya have been saved through trusting the process, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God,
    9. not of works, that no one would boast.
  10. For we are his workmanship, created in the huge yeeted Jesus for fire works, which God prepared before that we would walk in them.
  11. so basically remember that once ya, the Gentiles in the flesh, who are called “uncircumcision” by that which is called “circumcision,” (in the flesh, made by hands);
  12. that ya were at that time separate from the huge yeeted, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of the promise, having no hope and without God in the world.
  13. But now in the huge yeeted Jesus ya who once were far off are made near in the blood of the huge yeeted.
  14. For he is our peace, who made both one, and broke down the middle wall of partition,
  15. having abolished in the flesh the hostility, the law of commandments contained in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man of the two, making peace;
  16. and might reconcile them both in one body to God through the cross, having killed the hostility thereby.
  17. He came and preached peace to ya who were far off and to those who were near.
  18. For through him we both have our access in one Spirit to the Father.
  19. So then ya are no longer strangers and foreigners, but ya are fellow citizens with the yeeted fam, and of the household of God,
  20. being built on the foundation of the Jesus broskies and prophets, the huge yeeted Jesus himself being the chief cornerstone;
  21. in whom the whole building, fitted together, grows into a yeeted God's house in Boss;
  22. in whom ya also are built together for a habitation of God in the Spirit.
