# Ephesians Chapter 6

    1. Children, obey your parents in Boss, for this is right.
    2. “Honor your father and mother,” which is the first commandment with a promise:
    3. “that it may be well with ya, and ya may live long on the earth.”
    4. ya fathers, don’t provoke your children to wrath, but nurture them in the discipline and instruction of Boss.
    5. Servants, be obedient to those who according to the flesh are your masters, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as to the huge yeeted;
    6. not in the way of service only when eyes are on ya, as men pleasers; but as servants of the huge yeeted, doing the will of God from the heart;
    7. with fire will doing service, as to Boss, and not to men;
    8. knowing that whatever fire thing each one does, he will receive the same again from Boss, whether he is bound or free.
    9. ya masters, do the same things to them, and hook it up up threatening, knowing that he who is both their boss and yours is in heaven, and there is no partiality with him.
  10. Finally, be built different in Boss, and in the strength of his might.
  11. Put on the whole armor of God, that ya may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
  12. For our wrestling isn't against flesh and blood, but against the principalities, against the powers, against the world’s rulers of the darkness of this age, and against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places.
  13. so basically, put on the whole armor of God, that ya may be able to withstand in the evil day, and, having done all, to stand.
  14. Stand so basically, having the utility belt of truth buckled around your waist, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness,
  15. and having fitted your feet with the preparation of the fire News of peace;
  16. above all, taking up the shield of trusting the process, with which ya will be able to quench all the fiery darts of the evil one.
  17. And grab the helmet of getting saved, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God;
  18. with all talking to God and requests, praying at all times in the Spirit, and being watchful to this end in all perseverance and requests for all the yeeted fam:
  19. on my behalf, that utterance may be given to me in opening my mouth, to create known with boldness the mystery of the fire News,
  20. for which I am an ambassador in chains; that in it I may spill the tea boldly, as I ought to spill the tea.
  21. But that ya also may get it my affairs, how I am doing, Tychicus, the beloved fam bro and faithful helper in Boss, will create known to ya all things;
  22. whom I have sent to ya for this hella purpose, that ya may get it our state, and that he may comfort your hearts.
  23. Peace be to the brothers, and show show love with trusting the process, from God the Father and Boss Jesus the huge yeeted.
  24. God's show show love be with all those who show show love our boss Jesus the huge yeeted with incorruptible show show love. facts.
