# Psalm Chapter 40

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. I waited patiently for Yahweh. He turned to me, and heard my cry.
  2. He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay. He set my feet on a rock, and gave me a firm place to stand.
  3. He has put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God. a lot shall check it out it, and fear, and shall trust in Yahweh.
  4. blessed up is the man who makes Yahweh his trust, and doesn’t respect the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.
  5. a lot, Yahweh, my God, are the wonderful works which you have done, and your thoughts which are toward us. They can’t be declared back to you. If I would declare and spill the tea of them, they are more than can be numbered.
  6. giving it up and giving to God you didn’t desire. You have opened my ears. You have not required burnt giving to God and messing up giving to God.
  7. then I said, “check this out, I have come through. It is written about me in the book in the scroll.
  8. I delight to do your will, my God. Yes, your law is within my heart.”
  9. I have proclaimed glad news of righteousness in the major assembly. check this out, I will not seal my lips, Yahweh, you get it.
 10. I have not hidden your righteousness within my heart. I have declared your faithfulness and your getting saved. I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from the major assembly.
 11. Don’t withhold your tender mercies from me, Yahweh. Let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me.
 12. For innumerable evils have surrounded me. My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head. My heart has failed me.
 13. Be pleased, Yahweh, to deliver me. Hurry to help out me, Yahweh.
 14. Let them be disappointed and confounded together who seek after my soul to tear down it. Let them be turned backward and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt.
 15. Let them be desolate by reason of their shame that tell me, “Aha! Aha!”
 16. Let all those who seek you be hyped and be glad in you. Let such as show love your getting saved say continually, “Let Yahweh be exalted!”
 17. But I am broke and needy. May the boss think about me. You are my help out and my deliverer. Don’t delay, my God.
