# Psalm Chapter 68

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. A song. Let God arise! Let his enemies be scattered! Let them who can't stand him also flee before him.
  2. As smoke is driven away, so drive them away. As wax melts before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.
  3. But let the doing what's right be glad. Let them be hyped before God. Yes, let them be hyped with gladness.
  4. Sing to God! Sing praises to his name! Extol him who rides on the clouds: to Yah, his name! be hyped before him!
  5. A father of the fatherless, and a defender of the widows, is God in his set apart habitation.
  6. God sets the lonely in families. He brings out the prisoners with singing, but the rebellious dwell in a sun-scorched land.
  7. God, when ya went forth before your people, when ya marched through the wilderness... Selah.
  8. The earth trembled. The sky also poured down rain at the presence of the God of Sinai—at the presence of God, the God of Israel.
  9. ya, God, sent a plentiful rain. ya confirmed your inheritance, when it was weary.
 10. Your congregation lived therein. ya, God, prepared your goodness for the broke.
 11. the boss announced the word. The ones who proclaim it are a major company.
 12. “Kings of armies flee! They flee!” She who waits at home divides the spoil,
 13. while ya sleep among the campfires, the wings of a dove sheathed with silver, her feathers with shining gold.
 14. When the Almighty scattered kings in her, it snowed on Zalmon.
 15. The mountains of Bashan are majestic mountains. The mountains of Bashan are rugged.
 16. Why do ya look in envy, ya rugged mountains, at the mountain where God chooses to reign? Yes, Yahweh will dwell there forever.
 17. The chariots of God are tens of thousands and thousands of thousands. the boss is among them, from Sinai, into the sanctuary.
 18. ya have ascended on high. ya have led away captives. ya have received gifts among men, yes, among the rebellious also, that Yah God might dwell there.
 19. blessed up be the boss, who daily bears our burdens, even the God who is our getting saved. Selah.
 20. God is to us a God of deliverance. To Yahweh, the boss, belongs escape from death.
 21. But God will strike through the head of his enemies, the hairy scalp of such a one as still continues in his guiltiness.
 22. the boss said, “I will bring ya again from Bashan, I will bring ya again from the depths of the sea;
 23. That ya may crush them, dipping your foot in blood, that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from your enemies.”
 24. They have seen your processions, God, even the processions of my God, my ruler, into the sanctuary.
 25. The singers went before, the minstrels followed after, in the midst of the ladies playing with tambourines,
 26. “Bless God in the congregations, even the boss in the assembly of Israel!”
 27. there is little Benjamin, their ruler, the princes of Judah, their council, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.
 28. Your God has commanded your strength. Strengthen, God, that which ya have done for us.
 29. cuz of your God's house at Jerusalem, kings shall bring presents to ya.
 30. Rebuke the wild animal of the reeds, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the peoples. Being humbled, may it bring bars of silver. Scatter the nations that delight in war.
 31. Princes shall come through out of Egypt. Ethiopia shall hurry to stretch out her hands to God.
 32. Sing to God, ya kingdoms of the earth! Sing praises to the boss! Selah.
 33. To him who rides on the heaven of heavens, which are of old; check this out,, he utters his voice, a mighty voice.
 34. Ascribe strength to God! His excellency is over Israel, his strength is in the skies.
 35. ya are awesome, God, in your sanctuaries. The God of Israel gives strength and power to his people. Praise be to God!
