# Psalm Chapter 109

  1. For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. God of my praise, don’t remain silent,
  2. for they have opened the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of deceit against me. They have spoken to me with a lying tongue.
  3. They have also surrounded me with words of hatred, and fought against me without a cause.
  4. In return for my show love, they are my adversaries; but I am in talking to God.
  5. They have rewarded me evil for fire, and hatred for my show love.
  6. Set a wicked man over him. Let an adversary stand at his right hand.
  7. When he is judged, let him come through forth guilty. Let his talking to God be turned into messing up.
  8. Let his days be not much. Let another grab his office.
  9. Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.
 10. Let his children be wandering beggars. Let them be sought from their ruins.
 11. Let the creditor seize all that he has. Let strangers plunder the fruit of his labor.
 12. Let there be no one to extend kindness to him, neither let there be anyone to have pity on his fatherless children.
 13. Let his posterity be cut off. In the generation following let their name be blotted out.
 14. Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered by Yahweh. Don’t let the messing up of his mother be blotted out.
 15. Let them be before Yahweh continually, that he may cut off their memory from the earth;
 16. cuz he didn’t remember to show kindness, but persecuted the broke and needy man, the broken in heart, to kill them.
 17. Yes, he loved cursing, and it came to him. He didn’t delight in blessing, and it was far from him.
 18. He clothed himself also with cursing as with his garment. It came into his inward parts like water, like oil into his bones.
 19. Let it be to him as the clothing with which he covers himself, for the belt that is always around him.
 20. This is the reward of my adversaries from Yahweh, of those who spill the tea evil against my soul.
 21. But deal with me, Yahweh the boss, for your name’s sake, cuz your loving kindness is fire, deliver me;
 22. for I am broke and needy. My heart is wounded within me.
 23. I fade away like an evening shadow. I am shaken off like a locust.
 24. My knees are not it through fasting. My body is thin and lacks fat.
 25. I have also become a reproach to them. When they check it out me, they shake their head.
 26. help out me, Yahweh, my God. rescue me according to your loving kindness;
 27. that they may get it that this is your hand; that ya, Yahweh, have done it.
 28. They may curse, but ya bless. When they arise, they will be shamed, but your helper shall be hyped.
 29. Let my adversaries be clothed with dishonor. Let them cover themselves with their own shame as with a robe.
 30. I will hook it up major thanks to Yahweh with my mouth. Yes, I will praise him among the multitude.
 31. For he will stand at the right hand of the needy, to rescue him from those who judge his soul.
