# Psalm Chapter 44

  1. For the Chief Musician. By the sons of Korah. A contemplative psalm. We have heard with our ears, God; our fathers have told us, what work ya did in their days, in the days of old.
  2. ya drove out the nations with your hand, but ya planted them. ya afflicted the peoples, but ya spread them abroad.
  3. For they didn’t get the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm rescue them; but your right hand, and your arm, and the light of your face, cuz ya were favorable to them.
  4. ya are my ruler, God. Command victories for Jacob!
  5. Through ya, will we push down our adversaries. Through your name, will we tread them under who rise up against us.
  6. For I won't trust in my bow, neither shall my sword rescue me.
  7. But ya have saved us from our adversaries, and have shamed those who can't stand us.
  8. In God we have made our boast all day long, we will hook it up thanks to your name forever. Selah.
  9. But now ya rejected us, and brought us to dishonor, and don’t slide out with our armies.
 10. ya create us turn back from the adversary. Those who can't stand us grab spoil for themselves.
 11. ya have made us like sheep for food, and have scattered us among the nations.
 12. ya sell your people for nothing, and have gained nothing from their sale.
 13. ya create us a reproach to our neighbors, a scoffing and a derision to those who are around us.
 14. ya create us a byword among the nations, a shaking of the head among the peoples.
 15. All day long my dishonor is before me, and shame covers my face,
 16. At the taunt of one who reproaches and verbally abuses, cuz of the enemy and the avenger.
 17. All this has come through on us, yet have we not forgotten ya, Neither have we been false to your God's promise.
 18. Our heart has not turned back, neither have our steps strayed from your path,
 19. Though ya have crushed us in the haunt of jackals, and covered us with the shadow of death.
 20. If we have forgotten the name of our God, or spread forth our hands to a strange God;
 21. won’t God search this out? For he knows the secrets of the heart.
 22. Yes, for your sake we are killed all day long. We are regarded as sheep for the slaughter.
 23. Wake up! Why do ya sleep, boss? Arise! Don’t reject us forever.
 24. Why do ya hide your face, and forget our affliction and our oppression?
 25. For our soul is bowed down to the dust. Our body clings to the earth.
 26. Rise up to help out us. Redeem us for your loving kindness’ sake.
