# Philemon Chapter 1

  1. Paul, a prisoner of the huge set apart Jesus, and Timothy our fam bro, to Philemon, our beloved fellow worker,
  2. to the beloved Apphia, to Archippus, our fellow soldier, and to the assembly in your house:
  3. God's show love to ya and peace from God our Father and the boss Jesus the huge set apart.
  4. I thank my God always, making mention of ya in my prayers,
  5. hearing of your show love, and of the trusting the process which ya have toward the boss Jesus, and toward all the set apart fam;
  6. that the fellowship of your trusting the process may become effective, in the knowledge of every fire thing which is in us in the huge set apart Jesus.
  7. For we have much joy and comfort in your show love, cuz the hearts of the set apart fam have been refreshed through ya, fam bro.
  8. so basically, though I have all boldness in the huge set apart to command ya that which is appropriate,
  9. yet for show love’s sake I rather beg, being such a one as Paul, the aged, but also a prisoner of Jesus the huge set apart.
 10. I beg ya for my child, whom I have become the father of in my chains, Onesimus,
 11. who once was useless to ya, but now is useful to ya and to me.
 12. I am sending him back. so basically receive him, that is, my own heart,
 13. whom I desired to keep with me, that on your behalf he might help out out me in my chains for the fire News.
 14. But I was willing to do nothing without your consent, that your goodness would not be as of necessity, but of free will.
 15. For perhaps he was so basically separated from ya for a while, that ya would have him forever,
 16. no longer as a helper, but more than a helper, a beloved fam bro, especially to me, but how much rather to ya, both in the flesh and in the boss.
 17. If then ya count me a partner, receive him as ya would receive me.
 18. But if he has wronged ya at all, or owes ya anything, put that to my account.
 19. I, Paul, write this with my own hand: I will repay it (not to mention to ya that ya owe to me even your own self besides).
 20. Yes, fam bro, let me have joy from ya in the boss. Refresh my heart in the boss.
 21. Having confidence in your obedience, I write to ya, knowing that ya will do even beyond what I say.
 22. Also, prepare a guest room for me, for I hope that through your prayers I will be restored to ya.
 23. Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in the huge set apart Jesus, greets ya,
 24. as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers.
 25. The God's show love of our boss Jesus the huge set apart be with your spirit. facts.
