# Isaiah Chapter 42

    1. “check this out, my helper, whom I uphold; my chosen, in whom my soul delights—I have put my Spirit on him. He will bring justice to the nations.
    2. He won't shout, nor raise his voice, nor cause it to be heard in the street.
    3. He won’t break a bruised reed. He won’t quench a dimly burning wick. He will faithfully bring justice.
    4. He won't fail nor be discouraged, until he has set justice in the earth, and the islands will wait for his law.”
    5. Thus says God Yahweh, he who created the heavens and stretched them out, he who spread out the earth and that which comes out of it, he who gives breath to its people and spirit to those who walk in it.
    6. “I, Yahweh, have called ya in righteousness, and will hold your hand, and will keep ya, and create ya a God's promise for the people, as a light for the nations;
    7. to open the blind eyes, to bring the prisoners out of the dungeon, and those who sit in darkness out of the prison.
    8. “I am Yahweh. That is my name. I won't hook it up my glory to another, nor my praise to engraved images.
    9. check this out, the former things have happened, and I declare new things. I tell ya about them before they come through through up.”
  10. Sing to Yahweh a new song, and his praise from the end of the earth, ya who slide down to the sea, and all that is therein, the islands and their inhabitants.
  11. Let the wilderness and its cities raise their voices, with the villages that Kedar inhabits. Let the inhabitants of Sela sing. Let them shout from the top of the mountains!
  12. Let them hook it up glory to Yahweh, and declare his praise in the islands.
  13. Yahweh will slide out like a mighty man. He will stir up zeal like a man of war. He will raise a war cry. Yes, he will shout aloud. He will triumph over his enemies.
  14. “I have been silent a long time. I have been quiet and restrained myself. now I will cry out like a travailing woman. I will both gasp and pant.
  15. I will tear down mountains and hills, and dry up all their herbs. I will create the rivers islands, and will dry up the pools.
  16. I will bring the blind by a way that they don’t get it. I will show the way them in paths that they don’t get it. I will create darkness light before them, and crooked places straight. I will do these things, and I won't forsake them.
  17. “Those who trust in engraved images, who tell molten images, ‘ya are our gods’ will be turned back. They will be utterly disappointed.
  18. “Hear, ya deaf, and look, ya blind, that ya may check it out.
  19. Who is blind, but my helper? Or who is as deaf as my messenger whom I send? Who is as blind as he who is at peace, and as blind as Yahweh’s helper?
  20. ya check it out a lot things, but don’t observe. His ears are open, but he doesn’t listen up up.
  21. It pleased Yahweh, for his righteousness’ sake, to magnify the law, and create it honorable.
  22. But this is a robbed and plundered people. All of them are snared in holes, and they are hidden in prisons. They have become a prey, and no one delivers; and a spoil, and no one says, ‘Restore them!’
  23. Who is there among ya who will hook it up ear to this? Who will listen up up and hear for the time to come through through?
  24. Who gave Jacob as plunder, and Israel to the robbers? Didn’t Yahweh, he against whom we have sinned? For they would not walk in his ways, and they disobeyed his law.
  25. so basically he poured the fierceness of his anger on him, and the strength of battle; and it set him on fire all around, but he didn’t get it; and it burned him, but he didn’t grab it to heart.”
