# Isaiah Chapter 8

    1. Yahweh said to me, “grab a large tablet, and write on it with a man’s pen, ‘For Maher Shalal Hash Baz;’
    2. and I will grab for myself faithful witnesses to testify: Uriah the priest, and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.”
    3. I went to the prophetess, and she conceived, and bore a son. then Yahweh said to me, “Call his name ‘Maher Shalal Hash Baz.’
    4. For before the child knows how to say, ‘My father,’ and, ‘My mother,’ the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria will be carried away by the ruler of Assyria.”
    5. Yahweh spoke to me yet again, saying,
    6. “cuz this people have refused the waters of Shiloah that slide softly, and be hyped in Rezin and Remaliah’s son;
    7. now so basically, check this out, Boss brings upon them the mighty flood waters of the River: the ruler of Assyria and all his glory. It will come through through up over all its channels, and slide over all its banks.
    8. It will sweep onward into Judah. It will overflow and pass through; it will reach even to the neck; and the stretching out of its wings will fill the breadth of your land, Immanuel.
    9. create an uproar, ya peoples, and be broken in pieces! listen up up, all ya from far countries: dress for battle, and be shattered! Dress for battle, and be shattered!
  10. grab counsel together, and it will be brought to nothing; spill the tea the word, and it won't stand: for God is with us.”
  11. For Yahweh spoke thus to me with a built different hand, and instructed me not to walk in the way of this people, saying,
  12. “Don’t say, ‘A conspiracy!’ concerning all about which this people say, ‘A conspiracy!’ neither fear their threats, nor be terrorized.
  13. Yahweh of Armies is who ya must respect as yeeted. He is the one ya must fear. He is the one ya must dread.
  14. He will be a sanctuary, but for both houses of Israel, he will be a trap and a snare for the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
  15. a lot will stumble over it, fall, be broken, be snared, and be captured.”
  16. Wrap up the testimony. Seal the law among my disciples.
  17. I will wait for Yahweh, who hides his face from the house of Jacob, and I will look for him.
  18. check this out, I and the children whom Yahweh has given me are for signs and for wonders in Israel from Yahweh of Armies, who dwells in Mount Zion.
  19. When they tell ya, “Consult with those who have familiar spirits and with the wizards, who chirp and who mutter:” shouldn’t a people consult with their God? Should they consult the dead on behalf of the living?
  20. Turn to the law and to the testimony! If they don’t spill the tea according to this word, surely there is no morning for them.
  21. They will pass through it, hella distressed and hungry; and it will happen that when they are hungry, they will worry, and curse by their ruler and by their God. They will turn their faces upward,
  22. and look to the earth, and check it out distress, darkness, and the gloom of anguish. They will be driven into thick darkness.
