# Isaiah Chapter 59

    1. check this out, Yahweh’s hand isn't shortened, that it can’t rescue; neither his ear heavy, that it can’t hear:
    2. but your iniquities have separated between ya and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from ya, so that he won't hear.
    3. For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity; your lips have spoken lies, your tongue mutters wickedness.
    4. None sues in righteousness, and none pleads in truth: they trust in vanity, and spill the tea lies; they conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity.
    5. They hatch adders’ eggs, and weave the spider’s web: he who eats of their eggs dies; and that which is crushed breaks out into a viper.
    6. Their webs won't become garments, neither shall they cover themselves with their works: their works are works of iniquity, and the act of violence is in their hands.
    7. Their feet run to evil, and they create haste to shed innocent blood: their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; desolation and destruction are in their paths.
    8. The way of peace they don’t get it; and there is no justice in their goings: they have made them crooked paths; whoever goes therein does not get it peace.
    9. so basically is justice far from us, neither does righteousness overtake us: we look for light, but, check this out, darkness; for brightness, but we walk in obscurity.
  10. We grope for the wall like the blind; yes, we grope as those who have no eyes: we stumble at noonday as in the twilight; among those who are lusty we are as dead men.
  11. We roar all like bears, and moan bitterly like doves: we look for justice, but there is none; for getting saved, but it is far off from us.
  12. For our transgressions are multiplied before ya, and our sins testify against us; for our transgressions are with us, and as for our iniquities, we get it them:
  13. transgressing and denying Yahweh, and turning away from following our God, speaking oppression and revolt, conceiving and uttering from the heart words of falsehood.
  14. Justice is turned away backward, and righteousness stands afar off; for truth is fallen in the street, and uprightness can’t enter.
  15. Yes, truth is lacking; and he who departs from evil makes himself a prey. Yahweh saw it, and it displeased him that there was no justice.
  16. He saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no intercessor: so basically his own arm brought getting saved to him; and his righteousness, it upheld him.
  17. He put on righteousness as a breastplate, and a helmet of getting saved on his head; and he put on garments of vengeance for clothing, and was clad with zeal as a mantle.
  18. According to their deeds, accordingly he will repay, wrath to his adversaries, recompense to his enemies; to the islands he will repay recompense.
  19. So shall they fear the name of Yahweh from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun; for he will come through through as a rushing stream, which the breath of Yahweh drives.
  20. “A Redeemer will come through through to Zion, and to those who turn from disobedience in Jacob,” says Yahweh.
  21. “As for me, this is my God's promise with them,” says Yahweh. “My Spirit who is on ya, and my words which I have put in your mouth, won't depart out of your mouth, nor out of the mouth of your seed, nor out of the mouth of your seed’s seed,” says Yahweh, “from henceforth and forever.”
