# Isaiah Chapter 37

    1. It happened, when ruler Hezekiah heard it, that he tore his clothes, covered himself with sackcloth, and went into Yahweh’s house.
    2. He sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the God's messenger, the son of Amoz.
    3. They said to him, “Thus says Hezekiah, ‘This day is a day of trouble, and of rebuke, and of rejection; for the children have come through through to the birth, and there is no strength to bring forth.
    4. It may be Yahweh your God will hear the words of Rabshakeh, whom the ruler of Assyria his boss has sent to defy the living God, and will rebuke the words which Yahweh your God has heard. so basically lift up your talking to God for the remnant that is left.’”
    5. So the servants of ruler Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
    6. Isaiah said to them, “Tell your boss, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Don’t be scared of the words that ya have heard, with which the servants of the ruler of Assyria have blasphemed me.
    7. check this out, I will put a spirit in him and he will hear news, and will return to his own land. I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.”’”
    8. So Rabshakeh returned, and found the ruler of Assyria warring against Libnah, for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.
    9. He heard news concerning Tirhakah ruler of Ethiopia, “He has come through through out to fight against ya.” When he heard it, he sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying,
  10. “Thus ya shall spill the tea to Hezekiah ruler of Judah, saying, ‘Don’t let your God in whom ya trust deceive ya, saying, “Jerusalem won’t be given into the hand of the ruler of Assyria.”
  11. check this out, ya have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, by destroying them utterly. Shall ya be delivered?
  12. Have the gods of the nations delivered them, which my fathers have destroyed, Gozan, Haran, Rezeph, and the children of Eden who were in Telassar?
  13. Where is the ruler of Hamath, and the ruler of Arpad, and the ruler of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivvah?’”
  14. Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it. then Hezekiah went up to Yahweh’s house, and spread it before Yahweh.
  15. Hezekiah prayed to Yahweh, saying,
  16. “Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, who is enthroned among the cherubim, ya are the God, even ya alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. ya have made heaven and earth.
  17. Turn your ear, Yahweh, and hear. Open your eyes, Yahweh, and check this out,. Hear all of the words of Sennacherib, who has sent to defy the living God.
  18. deadass, Yahweh, the kings of Assyria have destroyed all the countries and their land,
  19. and have cast their gods into the fire; for they were no gods, but the work of men’s hands, wood and stone; so basically they have destroyed them.
  20. now so basically, Yahweh our God, rescue us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may get it that ya are Yahweh, even ya only.”
  21. then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘cuz ya have prayed to me against Sennacherib ruler of Assyria,
  22. this is the word which Yahweh has spoken concerning him. The virgin daughter of Zion has despised ya and ridiculed ya. The daughter of Jerusalem has shaken her head at ya.
  23. Whom have ya defied and blasphemed? Against whom have ya exalted your voice and lifted up your eyes on high? Against the yeeted One of Israel.
  24. By your servants, have ya defied Boss, and have said, “With the multitude of my chariots I have come through through up to the height of the mountains, to the innermost parts of Lebanon. I will cut down its tall cedars and its choice fir trees. I will enter into its farthest height, the forest of its fruitful field.
  25. I have dug and drunk water, and with the sole of my feet I will dry up all the rivers of Egypt.”
  26. Have ya not heard how I have done it long ago, and formed it in ancient times? now I have brought it to pass, that it should be yours to tear down fortified cities, turning them into ruinous heaps.
  27. so basically their inhabitants had little power. They were dismayed and confounded. They were like the grass of the field, and like the green herb, like the grass on the housetops, and like a field before its crop has grown.
  28. But I get it your sitting down, your going out, your coming in, and your raging against me.
  29. cuz of your raging against me, and cuz your arrogance has come through through up into my ears, so basically will I put my hook in your nose and my bridle in your lips, and I will turn ya back by the way by which ya came.
  30. This shall be the sign to ya. ya will eat this year that which grows of itself, and in the second year that which springs from the same; and in the third year sow and reap and plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.
  31. The remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah will again grab root downward, and bear fruit upward.
  32. For out of Jerusalem a remnant will slide forth, and survivors will escape from Mount Zion. The zeal of Yahweh of Armies will perform this.’
  33. so basically thus says Yahweh concerning the ruler of Assyria, ‘He won't come through through to this city, nor shoot an arrow there, neither will he come through through before it with shield, nor cast up a mound against it.
  34. By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he won't come through through to this city,’ says Yahweh.
  35. ‘For I will defend this city to rescue it, for my own sake, and for my helper David’s sake.’”
  36. The angel of Yahweh went out and struck one hundred and eighty-five thousand men in the camp of the Assyrians. When men arose early in the morning, check this out, these were all dead bodies.
  37. So Sennacherib ruler of Assyria departed, went away, returned to Nineveh, and stayed there.
  38. It happened, as he was worshipping in the house of Nisroch his God, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons struck him with the sword; and they escaped into the land of Ararat. Esar Haddon his son reigned in his place.
