# Isaiah Chapter 52

    1. Awake, awake, put on your strength, Zion; put on your snatched garments, Jerusalem, the yeeted city: for henceforth there shall no more come through through into ya the uncircumcised and the unclean.
    2. Shake yourself from the dust! Arise, sit up, Jerusalem! Release yourself from the bonds of your neck, captive daughter of Zion!
    3. For thus says Yahweh, “ya were sold for nothing; and ya shall be redeemed without money.”
    4. For God's like Yahweh, “My people went down at the first into Egypt to live there: and the Assyrian has oppressed them without cause.
    5. “now so basically, what do I do here,” says Yahweh, “seeing that my people are taken away for nothing? Those who rule over them mock,” says Yahweh, “and my name continually all the day is blasphemed.
    6. so basically my people shall get it my name. so basically they shall get it in that day that I am he who speaks; check this out, it is I.”
    7. How snatched on the mountains are the feet of him who brings fire news, who publishes peace, who brings fire news of fire, who publishes getting saved, who says to Zion, “Your God reigns!”
    8. The voice of your watchmen! they lift up the voice, together do they sing; for they shall check it out eye to eye, when Yahweh returns to Zion.
    9. Break forth into joy, sing together, ya waste places of Jerusalem; for Yahweh has comforted his people, he has redeemed Jerusalem.
  10. Yahweh has made bare his yeeted arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth have seen the getting saved of our God.
  11. Depart, depart, slide out from there, touch no unclean thing! slide out of the midst of her! Cleanse yourselves, ya who bear the vessels of Yahweh.
  12. For ya won't slide out in haste, neither shall ya slide by flight: for Yahweh will slide before ya; and the God of Israel will be your rear guard.
  13. check this out, my helper shall deal wisely, he shall be exalted and lifted up, and shall be hella high.
  14. Like as a lot were astonished at ya (his appearance was marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men),
  15. so shall he sprinkle a lot nations; kings shall shut their mouths at him: for that which had not been told them shall they check it out; and that which they had not heard shall they understand.
