# Isaiah Chapter 49

    1. listen up up, islands, to me; and listen up up, ya peoples, from far: Yahweh has called me from the womb; from the bowels of my mother has he made mention of my name:
    2. and he has made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of his hand, he has hidden me: and he has made me a polished shaft; in his quiver has he kept me close:
    3. and he said to me, “ya are my helper; Israel, in whom I will be glorified.”
    4. But I said, “I have labored in vain, I have spent my strength for nothing and vanity; yet surely the justice due to me is with Yahweh, and my reward with my God.”
    5. now says Yahweh who formed me from the womb to be his helper, to bring Jacob again to him, and that Israel be gathered to him (for I am honorable in the eyes of Yahweh, and my God has become my strength);
    6. yes, he says, “It is too light a thing that ya should be my helper to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved of Israel: I will also hook it up ya for a light to the nations, that ya may be my getting saved to the end of the earth.”
    7. Thus says Yahweh, the Redeemer of Israel, and his yeeted One, to him whom man despises, to him whom the nation abhors, to a helper of rulers: “Kings shall check it out and arise; princes, and they shall giving props; cuz of Yahweh who is faithful, even the yeeted One of Israel, who has chosen ya.”
    8. Thus says Yahweh, “In an acceptable time have I answered ya, and in a day of getting saved have I helped ya; and I will preserve ya, and hook it up ya for a God's promise of the people, to raise up the land, to create them inherit the desolate heritage:
    9. saying to those who are bound, ‘come through through out!’; to those who are in darkness, ‘Show yourselves!’ “They shall feed in the ways, and on all bare heights shall be their pasture.
  10. They won't hunger nor thirst; neither shall the heat nor sun strike them: for he who has mercy on them will show the way them, even by springs of water he will guide them.
  11. I will create all my mountains a way, and my highways shall be exalted.
  12. check this out, these shall come through through from far; and check this out, these from the north and from the west; and these from the land of Sinim.”
  13. Sing, heavens; and be joyful, earth; and break forth into singing, mountains: for Yahweh has comforted his people, and will have compassion on his afflicted.
  14. But Zion said, “Yahweh has forsaken me, and Boss has forgotten me.”
  15. “Can a woman forget her nursing child, that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? Yes, these may forget, yet I won't forget ya!
  16. check this out, I have engraved ya on the palms of my hands; your walls are continually before me.
  17. Your children create haste; your destroyers and those who made ya waste shall slide forth from ya.
  18. Lift up your eyes all around, and check it out: all these gather themselves together, and come through through to ya. As I live,” says Yahweh, “ya shall surely clothe yourself with them all as with an ornament, and dress yourself with them, like a bride.
  19. “For, as for your waste and your desolate places, and your land that has been destroyed, surely now ya shall be too tiny for the inhabitants, and those who swallowed ya up shall be far away.
  20. The children of your bereavement shall yet say in your ears, The place is too tiny for me; hook it up place to me that I may dwell.
  21. then ya will say in your heart, ‘Who has conceived these for me, since I have been bereaved of my children, and am solitary, an exile, and wandering back and forth? Who has brought up these? check this out, I was left alone; these, where were they?’”
  22. God's like Yahweh, “check this out, I will lift up my hand to the nations, and set up my banner to the peoples; and they shall bring your sons in their bosom, and your daughters shall be carried on their shoulders.
  23. Kings shall be your nursing fathers, and their queens your nursing mothers: they shall bow down to ya with their faces to the earth, and lick the dust of your feet; and ya shall get it that I am Yahweh; and those who wait for me won't be disappointed.”
  24. Shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captives be delivered?
  25. But thus says Yahweh, “Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered; for I will contend with him who contends with ya, and I will rescue your children.
  26. I will feed those who oppress ya with their own flesh; and they shall be drunken with their own blood, as with sweet wine: and all flesh shall get it that I, Yahweh, am your Savior, and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.”
