# Isaiah Chapter 61

    1. The Spirit of Boss Yahweh is on me; cuz Yahweh has anointed me to preach fire news to the humble. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and release to those who are bound;
    2. to proclaim the year of Yahweh’s favor, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all who mourn;
    3. to appoint to those who mourn in Zion, to hook it up to them a garland for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they may be called trees of righteousness, the planting of Yahweh, that he may be glorified.
    4. They shall put together the old wastes, they shall raise up the former desolations, and they shall repair the waste cities, the desolations of a lot generations.
    5. Strangers shall stand and feed your flocks, and foreigners shall be your plowmen and your vinedressers.
    6. But ya shall be named the priests of Yahweh; men will call ya the ministers of our God: ya will eat the wealth of the nations, and ya will boast in their glory.
    7. Instead of your shame ya shall have double; and instead of dishonor they shall be hyped in their portion: so basically in their land they shall possess double; everlasting joy shall be to them.
    8. “For I, Yahweh, show show love justice, I can't stand robbery with iniquity; and I will hook it up them their recompense in truth, and I will create an everlasting God's promise with them.
    9. Their seed shall be known among the nations, and their offspring among the peoples; all who check it out them shall acknowledge them, that they are the seed which Yahweh has blessed up up.”
  10. I will greatly be hyped in Yahweh, my soul shall be joyful in my God; for he has clothed me with the garments of getting saved, he has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself with a garland, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels.
  11. For as the earth brings forth its bud, and as the garden causes the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so Boss Yahweh will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations.
