# Isaiah Chapter 57

  1. The doing what's right perishes, and no man lays it to heart; and merciful men are taken away, none considering that the doing what's right is taken away from the evil.
  2. He enters into peace; they rest in their beds, each one who walks in his uprightness.
  3. “But draw near here, ya sons of the sorceress, the seed of the adulterer and the prostitute.
  4. Against whom do ya sport yourselves? Against whom do ya create a wide mouth, and stick out your tongue? Aren’t ya children of disobedience, a seed of falsehood,
  5. ya who inflame yourselves among the oaks, under every green tree; who kill the children in the valleys, under the clefts of the rocks?
  6. Among the smooth stones of the valley is your portion; they, they are your lot; ya have even poured a drink giving to God to them. ya have offered an giving to God. Shall I be appeased for these things?
  7. On a high and lofty mountain ya have set your bed; there also ya went up to offer giving it up.
  8. Behind the doors and the posts ya have set up your memorial: for ya have uncovered to someone besides me, and have gone up; ya have enlarged your bed, and made ya a God's promise with them: ya loved their bed where ya saw it.
  9. ya went to the ruler with oil, and increased your perfumes, and sent your ambassadors far off, and debased yourself even to Sheol.
 10. ya were wearied with the length of your way; yet ya didn’t say, ‘It is in vain.’ ya found a reviving of your strength; so basically ya weren’t faint.
 11. “Of whom have ya been scared and in fear, that ya lie, and have not remembered me, nor laid it to your heart? Haven’t I held my peace even of long time, and ya don’t fear me?
 12. I will declare your righteousness; and as for your works, they won't profit ya.
 13. When ya cry, let those who ya have gathered deliver ya; but the wind shall grab them, a breath shall carry them all away: but he who takes refuge in me shall possess the land, and shall inherit my set apart mountain.”
 14. He will say, “Cast up, cast up, prepare the way, grab up the stumbling-block out of the way of my people.”
 15. For thus says the high and lofty One who inhabits eternity, whose name is set apart: “I dwell in the high and set apart place, with him also who is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite.
 16. For I won't contend forever, neither will I be always mad salty; for the spirit would faint before me, and the souls who I have made.
 17. For the iniquity of his covetousness was I mad salty, and struck him; I hid myself and was mad salty; and he went on backsliding in the way of his heart.
 18. I have seen his ways, and will heal him: I will show the way him also, and restore comforts to him and to his mourners.
 19. I create the fruit of the lips: Peace, peace, to him who is far off and to him who is near,” says Yahweh; “and I will heal them.”
 20. But the wicked are like the troubled sea; for it can’t rest, and its waters cast up mire and dirt.
 21. “there is no peace,” says my God, “for the wicked.”
