# Isaiah Chapter 36

    1. now it happened in the fourteenth year of ruler Hezekiah, that Sennacherib ruler of Assyria attacked all of the fortified cities of Judah, and captured them.
    2. The ruler of Assyria sent Rabshakeh from Lachish to Jerusalem to ruler Hezekiah with a large army. He stood by the aqueduct from the upper pool in the fuller’s field highway.
    3. then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the recorder came out to him.
    4. Rabshakeh said to them, “now tell Hezekiah, ‘Thus says the major ruler, the ruler of Assyria, “What confidence is this in which ya trust?
    5. I say that your counsel and strength for the war are only vain words. now in whom do ya trust, that ya have rebelled against me?
    6. check this out, ya trust in the staff of this bruised reed, even in Egypt, which if a man leans on it, it will slide into his hand and pierce it. So is Pharaoh ruler of Egypt to all who trust in him.
    7. But if ya tell me, ‘We trust in Yahweh our God,’ isn’t that he whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has taken away, and has said to Judah and to Jerusalem, ‘ya shall giving props before this talking to God spot?’”
    8. now so basically, please create a pledge to my boss the ruler of Assyria, and I will hook it up ya two thousand horses, if ya are able on your part to set riders on them.
    9. How then can ya turn away the face of one captain of the least of my boss’s servants, and put your trust on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
  10. Have I come through through up now without Yahweh against this land to tear down it? Yahweh said to me, “slide up against this land, and tear down it.”’”
  11. then Eliakim, Shebna and Joah said to Rabshakeh, “Please spill the tea to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it; and don’t spill the tea to us in the Jews’ language in the hearing of the people who are on the wall.”
  12. But Rabshakeh said, “Has my boss sent me only to your boss and to ya, to spill the tea these words, and not to the men who sit on the wall, who will eat their own dung and drink their own urine with ya?”
  13. then Rabshakeh stood, and called out with a loud voice in the Jews’ language, and said, “Hear the words of the major ruler, the ruler of Assyria!
  14. Thus says the ruler, ‘Don’t let Hezekiah deceive ya; for he won't be able to deliver ya.
  15. Don’t let Hezekiah create ya trust in Yahweh, saying, “Yahweh will surely deliver us. This city won’t be given into the hand of the ruler of Assyria.”’
  16. Don’t listen up up to Hezekiah, for thus says the ruler of Assyria, ‘create your peace with me, and come through through out to me; and each of ya eat from his vine, and each one from his fig tree, and each one of ya drink the waters of his own cistern;
  17. until I come through through and grab ya away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards.
  18. Beware lest Hezekiah persuade ya, saying, “Yahweh will deliver us.” Have any of the gods of the nations delivered their lands from the hand of the ruler of Assyria?
  19. Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? Have they delivered Samaria from my hand?
  20. Who are they among all the gods of these countries that have delivered their country out of my hand, that Yahweh should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?’”
  21. But they remained silent, and said nothing in reply, for the ruler’s commandment was, “Don’t answer him.”
  22. then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn, and told him the words of Rabshakeh.
