# Isaiah Chapter 23

    1. The burden of Tyre. Howl, ya ships of Tarshish! For it is laid waste, so that there is no house, no entering in. From the land of Kittim it is revealed to them.
    2. Be still, ya inhabitants of the coast, ya whom the merchants of Sidon, that pass over the sea, have replenished.
    3. On major waters, the seed of the Shihor, the harvest of the Nile, was her revenue. She was the market of nations.
    4. Be ashamed, Sidon; for the sea has spoken, the stronghold of the sea, saying, “I have not travailed, nor brought forth, neither have I nourished young men, nor brought up virgins.”
    5. When the report comes to Egypt, they will be in anguish at the report of Tyre.
    6. Pass over to Tarshish! Wail, ya inhabitants of the coast!
    7. Is this your joyous city, whose antiquity is of ancient days, whose feet carried her far away to travel?
    8. Who has planned this against Tyre, the giver of crowns, whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers are the honorable of the earth?
    9. Yahweh of Armies has planned it, to stain the pride of all glory, to bring into contempt all the honorable of the earth.
  10. Pass through your land like the Nile, daughter of Tarshish. there is no restraint any more.
  11. He has stretched out his hand over the sea. He has shaken the kingdoms. Yahweh has ordered the destruction of Canaan’s strongholds.
  12. He said, “ya shall be hyped no more, ya oppressed virgin daughter of Sidon. Arise, pass over to Kittim. Even there ya will have no rest.”
  13. check this out, the land of the Chaldeans. This people was not. The Assyrians founded it for those who dwell in the wilderness. They set up their towers. They overthrew its palaces. They made it a ruin.
  14. Howl, ya ships of Tarshish, for your stronghold is laid waste!
  15. It will come through through to pass in that day that Tyre will be forgotten seventy years, according to the days of one ruler. After the end of seventy years it will be to Tyre like in the song of the prostitute.
  16. grab a harp; slide about the city, ya prostitute that has been forgotten. create sweet melody. Sing a lot songs, that ya may be remembered.
  17. It will happen after the end of seventy years that Yahweh will visit Tyre, and she shall return to her wages, and will play the prostitute with all the kingdoms of the world on the surface of the earth.
  18. Her merchandise and her wages will be holiness to Yahweh. It won't be treasured nor laid up; for her merchandise will be for those who dwell before Yahweh, to eat sufficiently, and for durable clothing.
