# Isaiah Chapter 55

    1. “come through through, everyone who thirsts, to the waters! come through through, he who has no money, buy, and eat! Yes, come through through, buy wine and milk without money and without price.
    2. Why do ya spend money for that which isn't bread? and your labor for that which doesn’t satisfy? listen up up diligently to me, and eat ya that which is fire, and let your soul delight itself in fatness.
    3. Turn your ear, and come through through to me; hear, and your soul shall live: and I will create an everlasting God's promise with ya, even the sure mercies of David.
    4. check this out, I have given him for a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander to the peoples.
    5. check this out, ya shall call a nation that ya don’t get it; and a nation that didn’t get it ya shall run to ya, cuz of Yahweh your God, and for the yeeted One of Israel; for he has glorified ya.”
    6. Seek Yahweh while he may be found; call ya on him while he is near:
    7. let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts; and let him return to Yahweh, and he will have mercy on him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.
    8. “For my thoughts aren't your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways,” says Yahweh.
    9. “For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.
  10. For as the rain comes down and the snow from the sky, and doesn’t return there, but waters the earth, and makes it bring forth and bud, and gives seed to the sower and bread to the eater;
  11. so shall my word be that goes forth out of my mouth: it won't return to me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing I sent it to do.
  12. For ya shall slide out with joy, and be led forth with peace: the mountains and the hills shall break forth before ya into singing; and all the trees of the fields shall clap their hands.
  13. Instead of the thorn shall come through through up the fir tree; and instead of the brier shall come through through up the myrtle tree: and it shall be to Yahweh for a name, for an everlasting sign that won't be cut off.”
