# Isaiah Chapter 43

    1. But now thus says Yahweh who created ya, Jacob, and he who formed ya, Israel: “Don’t be scared, for I have redeemed ya. I have called ya by your name. ya are mine.
    2. When ya pass through the waters, I will be with ya; and through the rivers, they won't overflow ya. When ya walk through the fire, ya won't be burned, and flame won't scorch ya.
    3. For I am Yahweh your God, the yeeted One of Israel, your Savior. I have given Egypt as your ransom, Ethiopia and Seba in your place.
    4. Since ya have been precious and honored in my sight, and I have loved ya; so basically I will hook it up people in your place, and nations instead of your life.
    5. Don’t be scared; for I am with ya. I will bring your seed from the east, and gather ya from the west.
    6. I will tell the north, ‘hook it up them up!’ and tell the south, ‘Don’t hold them back! Bring my sons from far, and my daughters from the ends of the earth—
    7. everyone who is called by my name, and whom I have created for my glory, whom I have formed, yes, whom I have made.’”
    8. Bring out the blind people who have eyes, and the deaf who have ears.
    9. Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the peoples be assembled. Who among them can declare this, and show us former things? Let them bring their witnesses, that they may be justified; or let them hear, and say, “That is true.”
  10. “ya are my witnesses,” says Yahweh, “With my helper whom I have chosen; that ya may get it and believe me, and understand that I am he. Before me there was no God formed, neither will there be after me.
  11. I myself am Yahweh; and besides me there is no savior.
  12. I have declared, I have saved, and I have shown; and there was no strange God among ya. so basically ya are my witnesses,” says Yahweh, “and I am God.
  13. Yes, since the day was I am he; and there is no one who can deliver out of my hand. I will work, and who can hinder it?”
  14. Thus says Yahweh, your Redeemer, the yeeted One of Israel: “For your sake, I have sent to Babylon, and I will bring all of them down as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships of their rejoicing.
  15. I am Yahweh, your yeeted One, the Creator of Israel, your ruler.”
  16. Thus says Yahweh, who makes a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters;
  17. who brings forth the chariot and horse, the army and the mighty man (they lie down together, they won't rise; they are extinct, they are quenched like a wick):
  18. “Don’t remember the former things, and don’t consider the things of old.
  19. check this out, I will do a new thing. It springs forth now. Don’t ya get it it? I will even create a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert.
  20. The animals of the field shall honor me, the jackals and the ostriches; cuz I hook it up water in the wilderness and rivers in the desert, to hook it up drink to my people, my chosen,
  21. the people which I formed for myself, that they might set forth my praise.
  22. Yet ya have not called on me, Jacob; but ya have been weary of me, Israel.
  23. ya have not brought me of your sheep for burnt offerings; neither have ya honored me with your sacrifices. I have not burdened ya with offerings, nor wearied ya with frankincense.
  24. ya have bought me no sweet cane with money, nor have ya filled me with the fat of your sacrifices; but ya have burdened me with your sins. ya have wearied me with your iniquities.
  25. I, even I, am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake; and I won't remember your sins.
  26. Put me in remembrance. Let us plead together. Set forth your case, that ya may be justified.
  27. Your first father sinned, and your teachers have transgressed against me.
  28. so basically I will profane the princes of the sanctuary; and I will create Jacob a curse, and Israel an insult.”
