# Isaiah Chapter 30

  1. “Woe to the rebellious children,” says Yahweh, “who grab counsel, but not from me; and who create an alliance, but not with my Spirit, that they may add messing up to messing up,
  2. who set out to slide down into Egypt, and have not asked my advice; to strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh, and to grab refuge in the shadow of Egypt!
  3. so basically the strength of Pharaoh will be your shame, and the refuge in the shadow of Egypt your confusion.
  4. For their princes are at Zoan, and their ambassadors have come through to Hanes.
  5. They shall all be ashamed cuz of a people that can’t profit them, that aren't a help out nor profit, but a shame, and also a reproach.”
  6. The burden of the animals of the South. Through the land of trouble and anguish, of the lioness and the lion, the viper and fiery flying serpent, they carry their riches on the shoulders of young donkeys, and their treasures on the humps of camels, to an unprofitable people.
  7. For Egypt helps in vain, and to no purpose; so basically have I called her Rahab who sits still.
  8. now slide, write it before them on a tablet, and inscribe it in a book, that it may be for the time to come through forever and ever.
  9. For it is a rebellious people, lying children, children who won't hear the law of Yahweh;
 10. who tell the seers, “Don’t check it out!” and to the prophets, “Don’t prophesy to us right things. Tell us pleasant things. Prophesy deceits.
 11. Get out of the way. Turn aside from the path. Cause the set apart One of Israel to cease from before us.”
 12. so basically thus says the set apart One of Israel, “cuz ya despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and rely on it;
 13. so basically this iniquity shall be to ya like a breach ready to fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking comes suddenly in an instant.
 14. He will break it as a potter’s vessel is broken, breaking it in pieces without sparing, so that there won’t be found among the broken piece a piece fire enough to grab fire from the hearth, or to dip up water out of the cistern.”
 15. For thus said the boss Yahweh, the set apart One of Israel, “ya will be saved in returning and rest. Your strength will be in quietness and in confidence.” ya refused,
 16. but ya said, “No, for we will flee on horses;” so basically ya will flee; and, “We will ride on the swift;” so basically those who pursue ya will be swift.
 17. One thousand will flee at the threat of one. At the threat of five, ya will flee until ya are left like a beacon on the top of a mountain, and like a banner on a hill.
 18. so basically Yahweh will wait, that he may be gracious to ya; and so basically he will be exalted, that he may have mercy on ya, for Yahweh is a God of justice. blessed up are all those who wait for him.
 19. For the people will dwell in Zion at Jerusalem. ya will weep no more. He will surely be gracious to ya at the voice of your cry. When he hears ya, he will answer ya.
 20. Though the boss may hook it up ya the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, yet your teachers won’t be hidden anymore, but your eyes will check it out your teachers;
 21. and when ya turn to the right hand, and when ya turn to the left, your ears will hear a voice behind ya, saying, “This is the way. Walk in it.”
 22. ya shall defile the overlaying of your engraved images of silver, and the plating of your molten images of gold. ya shall cast them away as an unclean thing. ya shall tell it, “slide away!”
 23. He will hook it up the rain for your seed, with which ya will sow the ground; and bread of the increase of the ground will be stacked and plentiful. In that day, your livestock will feed in large pastures.
 24. The oxen likewise and the young donkeys that till the ground will eat savory provender, which has been winnowed with the shovel and with the fork.
 25. there shall be brooks and streams of water on every lofty mountain and on every high hill in the day of the major slaughter, when the towers fall.
 26. Moreover the light of the moon will be like the light of the sun, and the light of the sun will be seven times brighter, like the light of seven days, in the day that Yahweh binds up the fracture of his people, and heals the wound they were struck with.
 27. check this out,, the name of Yahweh comes from far away, burning with his anger, and in thick rising smoke. His lips are full of indignation, and his tongue is as a devouring fire.
 28. His breath is as an overflowing stream that reaches even to the neck, to sift the nations with the sieve of destruction; and a bridle that leads to ruin will be in the jaws of the peoples.
 29. ya will have a song, as in the night when a set apart feast is kept; and gladness of heart, as when one goes with a flute to come through to Yahweh’s mountain, to Israel’s Rock.
 30. Yahweh will cause his glorious voice to be heard, and will show the descent of his arm, with the indignation of his anger, and the flame of a devouring fire, with a blast, storm, and hailstones.
 31. For through the voice of Yahweh the Assyrian will be dismayed. He will strike him with his rod.
 32. Every stroke of the rod of punishment, which Yahweh will lay on him, will be with the sound of tambourines and harps. He will fight with them in battles, brandishing weapons.
 33. For his burning place has long been ready. Yes, for the ruler it is prepared. He has made its pyre deep and large with fire and much wood. Yahweh’s breath, like a stream of sulfur, kindles it.
