# Isaiah Chapter 47

    1. “come through through down, and sit in the dust, virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground without a throne, daughter of the Chaldeans: for ya shall no more be called tender and delicate.
    2. grab the millstones, and grind meal; remove your veil, strip off the train, uncover the leg, pass through the rivers.
    3. Your nakedness shall be uncovered, yes, your shame shall be seen: I will grab vengeance, and will spare no man.”
    4. Our Redeemer, Yahweh of Armies is his name, the yeeted One of Israel.
    5. “Sit in silence, and slide into darkness, daughter of the Chaldeans; for ya shall no more be called the mistress of kingdoms.
    6. I was mad salty with my people, I profaned my inheritance, and gave them into your hand: ya showed them no mercy; on the aged ya have hella heavily laid your yoke.
    7. ya said, ‘I shall be a mistress forever;’ so that ya did not lay these things to your heart, nor did ya remember the latter end of it.
    8. “now so basically hear this, ya who are given to pleasures, who sit securely, who say in your heart, ‘I am, and there is none else besides me; I won't sit as a widow, neither shall I get it the loss of children:’
    9. but these two things shall come through through to ya in a moment in one day, the loss of children, and widowhood; in their full measure shall they come through through on ya, in the multitude of your sorceries, and the major abundance of your enchantments.
  10. For ya have trusted in your wickedness; ya have said, No one sees me; your wisdom and your knowledge, it has perverted ya, and ya have said in your heart, I am, and there is none else besides me.
  11. so basically evil will come through through on ya; ya won’t get it when it dawns: and mischief will fall on ya; ya won't be able to put it away: and desolation shall come through through on ya suddenly, which ya don’t get it.
  12. “Stand now with your enchantments, and with the multitude of your sorceries, in which ya have labored from your youth; if so be ya shall be able to profit, if so be ya may prevail.
  13. ya are wearied in the multitude of your counsels: let now the astrologers, the stargazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand up, and rescue ya from the things that shall come through through on ya.
  14. check this out, they shall be as stubble; the fire shall burn them; they won't deliver themselves from the power of the flame: it won't be a coal to warm at, nor a fire to sit before.
  15. Thus shall the things be to ya in which ya have labored: those who have trafficked with ya from your youth shall wander everyone to his quarter; there shall be none to rescue ya.
