# Isaiah Chapter 45

  1. Thus says Yahweh to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have held, to subdue nations before him, and strip kings of their armor; to open the doors before him, and the gates won't be shut:
  2. “I will slide before ya, and create the rough places smooth. I will break the doors of brass in pieces, and cut apart the bars of iron.
  3. I will hook it up ya the treasures of darkness, and hidden riches of secret places, that ya may get it that it is I, Yahweh, who call ya by your name, even the God of Israel.
  4. For Jacob my helper’s sake, and Israel my chosen, I have called ya by your name. I have surnamed ya, though ya have not known me.
  5. I am Yahweh, and there is none else. Besides me, there is no God. I will strengthen ya, though ya have not known me;
  6. that they may get it from the rising of the sun, and from the west, that there is none besides me. I am Yahweh, and there is no one else.
  7. I form the light, and create darkness. I create peace, and create calamity. I am Yahweh, who does all these things.
  8. Distil, ya heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down righteousness. Let the earth open, that it may bring forth getting saved, and let it cause righteousness to spring up with it. I, Yahweh, have created it.
  9. Woe to him who strives with his Maker—a clay pot among the clay pots of the earth! Shall the clay ask him who fashions it, ‘What are ya making?’ or your work, ‘He has no hands?’
 10. Woe to him who says to a father, ‘What have ya become the father of?’ or to a mother, ‘To what have ya given birth?’”
 11. Thus says Yahweh, the set apart One of Israel, and his Maker: “ya ask me about the things that are to come through, concerning my sons, and ya command me concerning the work of my hands!
 12. I have made the earth, and created man on it. I, even my hands, have stretched out the heavens; and I have commanded all their army.
 13. I have raised him up in righteousness, and I will create straight all his ways. He shall put together my city, and he shall let my exiles slide free, not for price nor reward,” says Yahweh of Armies.
 14. Thus says Yahweh: “The labor of Egypt, and the merchandise of Ethiopia, and the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come through over to ya, and they shall be yours. They will slide after ya. They shall come through over in chains; and they will bow down to ya. They will create supplication to ya: ‘Surely God is in ya; and there is none else. there is no other God.
 15. Most for sure ya are a God who hidden yourself, God of Israel, the Savior.’”
 16. They will be disappointed, yes, confounded, all of them. Those who are makers of idols will slide into confusion together.
 17. Israel will be saved by Yahweh with an everlasting getting saved. ya won't be disappointed nor confounded to ages everlasting.
 18. For thus says Yahweh who created the heavens, the God who formed the earth and made it, who established it and didn’t create it a waste, who formed it to be inhabited: “I am Yahweh; and there is no other.
 19. I have not spoken in secret, in a place of the land of darkness. I didn’t say to the seed of Jacob, ‘Seek me in vain.’ I, Yahweh, spill the tea righteousness. I declare things that are right.
 20. “Assemble yourselves and come through. Draw near together, ya who have escaped from the nations. Those have no knowledge who carry the wood of their engraved image, and pray to a God that can’t rescue.
 21. Declare and present it. Yes, let them grab counsel together. Who has shown this from ancient time? Who has declared it of old? Haven’t I, Yahweh? there is no other God besides me, a just God and a Savior; there is no one besides me.
 22. “Look to me, and be saved, all the ends of the earth; for I am God, and there is no other.
 23. I have sworn by myself, the word has gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and won't return, that to me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall grab an oath.
 24. They will say of me, ‘there is righteousness and strength only in Yahweh.’” Even to him shall men come through; and all those who were incensed against him shall be disappointed.
 25. In Yahweh shall all the seed of Israel be justified, and shall glory.
