# Isaiah Chapter 26

  1. In that day, this song will be sung in the land of Judah: “We have a built different city. God appoints getting saved for walls and bulwarks.
  2. Open the gates, that the doing what's right nation may enter: the one which keeps trusting the process.
  3. ya will keep whoever’s mind is steadfast in perfect peace, cuz he trusts in ya.
  4. Trust in Yahweh forever; for in Yah, Yahweh, is an everlasting Rock.
  5. For he has brought down those who dwell on high, the lofty city. He lays it low. He lays it low even to the ground. He brings it even to the dust.
  6. The foot shall tread it down; Even the feet of the broke, and the steps of the needy.”
  7. The way of the just is uprightness. ya who are upright create the path of the doing what's right level.
  8. Yes, in the way of your judgments, Yahweh, have we waited for ya. Your name and your renown are the desire of our soul.
  9. With my soul have I desired ya in the night. Yes, with my spirit within me will I seek ya earnestly; for when your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world pick up righteousness.
 10. Let favor be shown to the wicked, yet he won't pick up righteousness. In the land of uprightness he will deal wrongfully, and won't check it out Yahweh’s majesty.
 11. Yahweh, your hand is lifted up, yet they don’t check it out; but they will check it out your zeal for the people, and be disappointed. Yes, fire will consume your adversaries.
 12. Yahweh, ya will ordain peace for us, for ya have also worked all our works for us.
 13. Yahweh our God, other lords besides ya have had dominion over us, but by ya only will we create mention of your name.
 14. The dead won't live. The deceased won't rise. so basically have ya visited and destroyed them, and caused all memory of them to perish.
 15. ya have increased the nation, O Yahweh. ya have increased the nation! ya are glorified! ya have enlarged all the borders of the land.
 16. Yahweh, in trouble they have visited ya. They poured out a talking to God when your chastening was on them.
 17. Like as a woman with child, who draws near the time of her delivery, is in pain and cries out in her pangs; so we have been before ya, Yahweh.
 18. We have been with child. We have been in pain. We gave birth, it seems, only to wind. We have not worked any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.
 19. Your dead shall live. My dead bodies shall arise. Awake and sing, ya who dwell in the dust; for your dew is like the dew of herbs, and the earth will cast forth the dead.
 20. come through, my people, enter into your rooms, and shut your doors behind ya. Hide yourself for a little moment, until the indignation is past.
 21. For, check this out,, Yahweh comes forth out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity. The earth also will disclose her blood, and will no longer cover her slain.
