# Isaiah Chapter 33

    1. Woe to ya who tear down, but ya weren’t destroyed; and who betray, but nobody betrayed ya! When ya have finished destroying, ya will be destroyed; and when ya have made an end of betrayal, ya will be betrayed.
    2. Yahweh, be gracious to us. We have waited for ya. Be our strength every morning, our getting saved also in the time of trouble.
    3. At the noise of the thunder, the peoples have fled. When ya lift yourself up, the nations are scattered.
    4. Your spoil will be gathered as the caterpillar gathers. Men will leap on it as locusts leap.
    5. Yahweh is exalted, for he dwells on high. He has filled Zion with justice and righteousness.
    6. there will be stability in your times, abundance of getting saved, wisdom, and knowledge. The fear of Yahweh is your treasure.
    7. check this out, their valiant ones cry outside; the ambassadors of peace weep bitterly.
    8. The highways are desolate. The traveling man ceases. The God's promise is broken. He has despised the cities. He doesn’t respect man.
    9. The land mourns and languishes. Lebanon is confounded and withers away. Sharon is like a desert, and Bashan and Carmel are stripped bare.
  10. “now I will arise,” says Yahweh; “now I will lift myself up. now I will be exalted.
  11. ya will conceive chaff. ya will bring forth stubble. Your breath is a fire that will devour ya.
  12. The peoples will be like the burning of lime, like thorns that are cut down and burned in the fire.
  13. Hear, ya who are far off, what I have done; and, ya who are near, acknowledge my might.”
  14. The sinners in Zion are scared. Trembling has seized the godless ones. Who among us can live with the devouring fire? Who among us can live with everlasting burning?
  15. He who walks righteously, and speaks blamelessly; He who despises the gain of oppressions, who gestures with his hands, refusing to grab a bribe, who stops his ears from hearing of blood, and shuts his eyes from looking at evil—
  16. he will dwell on high. His place of defense will be the fortress of rocks. His bread will be supplied. His waters will be sure.
  17. Your eyes will check it out the ruler in his beauty. They will check it out a distant land.
  18. Your heart will meditate on the terror. Where is he who counted? Where is he who weighed? Where is he who counted the towers?
  19. ya will no longer check it out the fierce people, a people of a deep speech that ya can’t comprehend, with a strange language that ya can’t understand.
  20. Look at Zion, the city of our appointed festivals. Your eyes will check it out Jerusalem, a quiet habitation, a tent that won’t be removed. Its stakes will never be plucked up, nor will any of its cords be broken.
  21. But there Yahweh will be with us in majesty, a place of broad rivers and streams, in which no galley with oars will slide, neither will any gallant ship pass by there.
  22. For Yahweh is our judge. Yahweh is our lawgiver. Yahweh is our ruler. He will rescue us.
  23. Your rigging is untied. They couldn’t strengthen the foot of their mast. They couldn’t spread the sail. then the prey of a major spoil was divided. The lame took the prey.
  24. The inhabitant won’t say, “I am sick.” The people who dwell therein will be forgiven their iniquity.
