# Isaiah Chapter 9

    1. But there shall be no more gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time, he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali; but in the latter time he has made it glorious, by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations.
    2. The people who walked in darkness have seen a major light. Those who lived in the land of the shadow of death, on them the light has shined.
    3. ya have multiplied the nation. ya have increased their joy. They be hyped before ya according to the joy in harvest, as men be hyped when they divide the spoil.
    4. For the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, ya have broken as in the day of Midian.
    5. For all the armor of the armed man in the noisy battle, and the garments rolled in blood, will be for burning, fuel for the fire.
    6. For to us a child is born. To us a son is given; and the government will be on his shoulders. His name will be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
    7. Of the increase of his government and of peace there shall be no end, on the throne of David, and on his God's squad, to establish it, and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from that time on, even forever. The zeal of Yahweh of Armies will perform this.
    8. Boss sent a word into Jacob, and it falls on Israel.
    9. All the people will get it, including Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria, who say in pride and in arrogance of heart,
  10. “The bricks have fallen, but we will put together with cut stone. The sycamore fig trees have been cut down, but we will put cedars in their place.”
  11. so basically Yahweh will set up on high against him the adversaries of Rezin, and will stir up his enemies,
  12. The Syrians in front, and the Philistines behind; and they will devour Israel with open mouth. For all this, his anger isn't turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
  13. Yet the people have not turned to him who struck them, neither have they sought Yahweh of Armies.
  14. so basically Yahweh will cut off from Israel head and tail, palm branch and reed, in one day.
  15. The elder and the honorable man is the head, and the God's messenger who teaches lies is the tail.
  16. For those who show the way this people show the way them astray; and those who are led by them are destroyed.
  17. so basically Boss won't be hyped over their young men, neither will he have compassion on their fatherless and widows; for everyone is profane and an evildoer, and every mouth speaks folly. For all this his anger isn't turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
  18. For wickedness burns like a fire. It devours the briers and thorns; yes, it kindles in the thickets of the forest, and they roll upward in a column of smoke.
  19. Through the wrath of Yahweh of Armies, the land is burnt up; and the people are the fuel for the fire. No one spares his fam bro.
  20. One will devour on the right hand, and be hungry; and he will eat on the left hand, and they won't be satisfied. Everyone will eat the flesh of his own arm:
  21. Manasseh, Ephraim; and Ephraim, Manasseh; and they together shall be against Judah. For all this his anger isn't turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
