# Proverbs Chapter 3

  1. My son, don’t forget my teaching; but let your heart keep my commandments:
  2. for length of days, and years of life, and peace, will they add to ya.
  3. Don’t let kindness and truth forsake ya. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart.
  4. So ya will find favor, and fire understanding in the sight of God and man.
  5. Trust in Yahweh with all your heart, and don’t lean on your own understanding.
  6. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will create your paths straight.
  7. Don’t be smart in your own eyes. Fear Yahweh, and depart from evil.
  8. It will be health to your body, and nourishment to your bones.
  9. Honor Yahweh with your substance, with the first fruits of all your increase:
 10. so your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine.
 11. My son, don’t despise Yahweh’s discipline, neither be weary of his reproof:
 12. for whom Yahweh loves, he reproves; even as a father reproves the son in whom he delights.
 13. vibing is the man who finds wisdom, the man who gets understanding.
 14. For her fire profit is better than getting silver, and her return is better than fine gold.
 15. She is more precious than rubies. None of the things ya can desire are to be compared to her.
 16. Length of days is in her right hand. In her left hand are riches and honor.
 17. Her ways are ways of pleasantness. All her paths are peace.
 18. She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her. vibing is everyone who retains her.
 19. By wisdom Yahweh founded the earth. By understanding, he established the heavens.
 20. By his knowledge, the depths were broken up, and the skies drop down the dew.
 21. My son, let them not depart from your eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion:
 22. so they will be life to your soul, and God's show love for your neck.
 23. then ya shall walk in your way securely. Your foot won’t stumble.
 24. When ya lie down, ya won't be scared. Yes, ya will lie down, and your sleep will be sweet.
 25. Don’t be scared of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it comes:
 26. for Yahweh will be your confidence, and will keep your foot from being taken.
 27. Don’t withhold fire from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of your hand to do it.
 28. Don’t say to your neighbor, “slide, and come through again; tomorrow I will hook it up it to ya,” when ya have it by ya.
 29. Don’t devise evil against your neighbor, since he dwells securely by ya.
 30. Don’t strive with a man without cause, if he has done ya no harm.
 31. Don’t envy the man of violence. Choose none of his ways.
 32. For the perverse is an abomination to Yahweh, but his friendship is with the upright.
 33. Yahweh’s curse is in the house of the wicked, but he blesses the habitation of the doing what's right.
 34. Surely he mocks the Big meanies, but he gives God's show love to the humble.
 35. The smart will inherit glory, but shame will be the promotion of fools.
