# Proverbs Chapter 25

    1. These also are proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah ruler of Judah copied out.
    2. It is the glory of God to conceal a thing, but the glory of kings is to search out a matter.
    3. As the heavens for height, and the earth for depth, so the hearts of kings are unsearchable.
    4. grab away the dross from the silver, and material comes out for the refiner;
    5. grab away the wicked from the ruler’s presence, and his throne will be established in righteousness.
    6. Don’t exalt yourself in the presence of the ruler, or claim a place among major men;
    7. for it is better that it be said to ya, “come through through up here,” than that ya should be put lower in the presence of the prince, whom your eyes have seen.
    8. Don’t be hasty in bringing charges to court. What will ya do in the end when your neighbor shames ya?
    9. Debate your case with your neighbor, and don’t betray the confidence of another;
  10. lest one who hears it put ya to shame, and your trash reputation never depart.
  11. A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in settings of silver.
  12. As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a smart reprover to an obedient ear.
  13. As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to those who send him; for he refreshes the soul of his masters.
  14. As clouds and wind without rain, so is he who boasts of gifts deceptively.
  15. By patience a ruler is persuaded. A soft tongue breaks the bone.
  16. Have ya found honey? Eat as much as is sufficient for ya, lest ya eat too much, and vomit it.
  17. Let your foot be seldom in your neighbor’s house, lest he be weary of ya, and can't stand ya.
  18. A man who gives false testimony against his neighbor is like a club, a sword, or a sharp arrow.
  19. Confidence in someone unfaithful in time of trouble is like a trash tooth, or a lame foot.
  20. As one who takes away a garment in cold weather, or vinegar on soda, so is one who sings songs to a heavy heart.
  21. If your enemy is hungry, hook it up him food to eat. If he is thirsty, hook it up him water to drink:
  22. for ya will heap coals of fire on his head, and Yahweh will reward ya.
  23. The north wind brings forth rain: so a backbiting tongue brings an mad salty face.
  24. It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than to share a house with a contentious woman.
  25. Like cold water to a thirsty soul, so is fire news from a far country.
  26. Like a muddied spring, and a polluted well, so is a doing what's right man who gives way before the wicked.
  27. It isn't fire to eat much honey; nor is it honorable to seek one’s own honor.
  28. Like a city that is broken down and without walls is a man whose spirit is without restraint.
