# Proverbs Chapter 24

    1. Don’t be envious of evil men; neither desire to be with them:
    2. for their hearts plot violence, and their lips talk about mischief.
    3. Through wisdom a house is built; by understanding it is established;
    4. by knowledge the rooms are filled with all rare and snatched treasure.
    5. A smart man has major power; and a knowledgeable man increases strength;
    6. for by smart guidance ya wage your war; and victory is in a lot advisors.
    7. Wisdom is too high for a fool: he doesn’t open his mouth in the gate.
    8. One who plots to do evil will be called a schemer.
    9. The schemes of folly are messing up. The mocker is detested by men.
  10. If ya falter in the time of trouble, your strength is tiny.
  11. Rescue those who are being led away to death! facts, hold back those who are staggering to the slaughter!
  12. If ya say, “check this out, we didn’t get it this;” doesn’t he who weighs the hearts consider it? He who keeps your soul, doesn’t he get it it? Shall he not render to every man according to his work?
  13. My son, eat honey, for it is fire; the droppings of the honeycomb, which are sweet to your taste:
  14. so ya shall get it wisdom to be to your soul; if ya have found it, then there will be a reward, your hope won't be cut off.
  15. Don’t lay in wait, wicked man, against the habitation of the doing what's right. Don’t tear down his resting place:
  16. for a doing what's right man falls seven times, and rises up again; but the wicked are overthrown by calamity.
  17. Don’t be hyped when your enemy falls. Don’t let your heart be glad when he is overthrown;
  18. lest Yahweh check it out it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him.
  19. Don’t fret yourself cuz of evildoers; neither be envious of the wicked:
  20. for there will be no reward to the evil man; and the lamp of the wicked shall be snuffed out.
  21. My son, fear Yahweh and the ruler. Don’t join those who are rebellious:
  22. for their calamity will rise suddenly; the destruction from them both—who knows?
  23. These also are sayings of the smart. To show partiality in judgment isn't fire.
  24. He who says to the wicked, “ya are doing what's right;” peoples shall curse him, and nations shall abhor him—
  25. but it will slide well with those who convict the guilty, and a stacked blessing will come through through on them.
  26. An honest answer is like a kiss on the lips.
  27. Prepare your work outside, and get your fields ready. Afterwards, put together your house.
  28. Don’t be a witness against your neighbor without cause. Don’t deceive with your lips.
  29. Don’t say, “I will do to him as he has done to me; I will render to the man according to his work.”
  30. I went by the field of the sluggard, by the vineyard of the man void of understanding;
  31. check this out, it was all grown over with thorns. Its surface was covered with nettles, and its stone wall was broken down.
  32. then I saw, and considered well. I saw, and received instruction:
  33. a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep;
  34. so your poverty will come through through as a robber, and your want as an armed man.
