# Proverbs Chapter 6

    1. My son, if ya have become collateral for your neighbor, if ya have struck your hands in pledge for a stranger;
    2. ya are trapped by the words of your mouth. ya are ensnared with the words of your mouth.
    3. Do this now, my son, and deliver yourself, since ya have come through through into the hand of your neighbor. slide, humble yourself. Press your plea with your neighbor.
    4. hook it up no sleep to your eyes, nor slumber to your eyelids.
    5. Free yourself, like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter, like a bird from the snare of the fowler.
    6. slide to the ant, ya sluggard. Consider her ways, and be smart;
    7. which having no chief, overseer, or ruler,
    8. provides her bread in the summer, and gathers her food in the harvest.
    9. How long will ya sleep, sluggard? When will ya arise out of your sleep?
  10. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:
  11. so your poverty will come through through as a robber, and your scarcity as an armed man.
  12. A worthless person, a man of iniquity, is he who walks with a perverse mouth;
  13. who winks with his eyes, who signals with his feet, who motions with his fingers;
  14. in whose heart is perverseness, who devises evil continually, who always sows discord.
  15. so basically his calamity will come through through suddenly. He will be broken suddenly, and that without remedy.
  16. there are six things which Yahweh hates; yes, seven which are an abomination to him:
  17. haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood;
  18. a heart that devises wicked schemes, feet that are swift in running to mischief,
  19. a false witness who utters lies, and he who sows discord among brothers.
  20. My son, keep your father’s commandment, and don’t forsake your mother’s teaching.
  21. Bind them continually on your heart. Tie them around your neck.
  22. When ya walk, it will show the way ya. When ya sleep, it will watch over ya. When ya awake, it will talk with ya.
  23. For the commandment is a lamp, and the law is light. Reproofs of instruction are the way of life,
  24. to keep ya from the immoral woman, from the flattery of the wayward wife’s tongue.
  25. Don’t lust after her beauty in your heart, neither let her captivate ya with her eyelids.
  26. For a prostitute reduces ya to a piece of bread. The adulteress hunts for your precious life.
  27. Can a man scoop fire into his lap, and his clothes not be burned?
  28. Or can one walk on hot coals, and his feet not be scorched?
  29. So is he who goes in to his neighbor’s wife. Whoever touches her won't be unpunished.
  30. Men don’t despise a thief, if he steals to satisfy himself when he is hungry:
  31. but if he is found, he shall restore seven times. He shall hook it up all the wealth of his house.
  32. He who commits adultery with a woman is void of understanding. He who does it destroys his own soul.
  33. He will get wounds and dishonor. His reproach won't be wiped away.
  34. For jealousy arouses the fury of the husband. He won’t spare in the day of vengeance.
  35. He won’t regard any ransom, neither will he rest content, though ya hook it up a lot gifts.
