# Proverbs Chapter 11

    1. A false balance is an abomination to Yahweh, but accurate weights are his delight.
    2. When pride comes, then comes shame, but with humility comes wisdom.
    3. The integrity of the upright shall guide them, but the perverseness of the treacherous shall tear down them.
    4. Riches don’t profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.
    5. The righteousness of the blameless will direct his way, but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
    6. The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them, but the unfaithful will be trapped by evil desires.
    7. When a wicked man dies, hope perishes, and expectation of power comes to nothing.
    8. A doing what's right person is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked takes his place.
    9. With his mouth the godless man destroys his neighbor, but the doing what's right will be delivered through knowledge.
  10. When it goes well with the doing what's right, the city rejoices. When the wicked perish, there is shouting.
  11. By the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted, but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
  12. One who despises his neighbor is void of wisdom, but a man of understanding holds his peace.
  13. One who brings gossip betrays a confidence, but one who is of a trustworthy spirit is one who keeps a secret.
  14. Where there is no smart guidance, the nation falls, but in the multitude of counselors there is victory.
  15. He who is collateral for a stranger will suffer for it, but he who refuses pledges of collateral is secure.
  16. A gracious woman obtains honor, but violent men obtain riches.
  17. The merciful man does fire to his own soul, but he who is cruel troubles his own flesh.
  18. Wicked people earn deceitful wages, but one who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward.
  19. He who is deadass, doing what's right gets life. He who pursues evil gets death.
  20. Those who are perverse in heart are an abomination to Yahweh, but those whose ways are blameless are his delight.
  21. Most for sure, the evil man won't be unpunished, but the seed of the doing what's right will be delivered.
  22. Like a gold ring in a pig’s snout, is a snatched woman who lacks discretion.
  23. The desire of the doing what's right is only fire. The expectation of the wicked is wrath.
  24. there is one who scatters, and increases yet more. there is one who withholds more than is appropriate, but gains poverty.
  25. The liberal soul shall be made fat. He who waters shall be watered also himself.
  26. People curse someone who withholds grain, but blessing will be on the head of him who sells it.
  27. He who diligently seeks fire seeks favor, but he who searches after evil, it shall come through through to him.
  28. He who trusts in his riches will fall, but the doing what's right shall flourish as the green leaf.
  29. He who troubles his own house shall inherit the wind. The dumb shall be helper to the smart of heart.
  30. The fruit of the doing what's right is a tree of life. He who is smart wins souls.
  31. check this out, the doing what's right shall be repaid in the earth; how much more the wicked and the sinner!
