# Proverbs Chapter 1

  1. The proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, ruler of Israel:
  2. to get it wisdom and instruction; to discern the words of understanding;
  3. to receive instruction in smart dealing, in righteousness, justice, and equity;
  4. to hook it up prudence to the simple, knowledge and discretion to the young man:
  5. that the smart man may hear, and increase in learning; that the man of understanding may attain to sound counsel:
  6. to understand a proverb, and parables, the words and riddles of the smart.
  7. The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of knowledge; but the dumb despise wisdom and instruction.
  8. My son, listen up to your father’s instruction, and don’t forsake your mother’s teaching:
  9. for they will be a garland to God's show love your head, and chains around your neck.
 10. My son, if sinners entice ya, don’t consent.
 11. If they say, “come through with us, Let’s lay in wait for blood; let’s lurk secretly for the innocent without cause;
 12. let’s swallow them up alive like Sheol, and whole, like those who slide down into the pit.
 13. We’ll find all valuable wealth. We’ll fill our houses with spoil.
 14. ya shall cast your lot among us. We’ll all have one purse.”
 15. My son, don’t walk in the way with them. Keep your foot from their path,
 16. for their feet run to evil. They hurry to shed blood.
 17. For in vain is the net spread in the sight of any bird:
 18. but these lay wait for their own blood. They lurk secretly for their own lives.
 19. So are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain. It takes away the life of its owners.
 20. Wisdom calls aloud in the street. She utters her voice in the public squares.
 21. She calls at the head of noisy places. At the entrance of the city gates, she utters her words:
 22. “How long, ya simple ones, will ya show love simplicity? How long will Big meanies delight themselves in mockery, and fools can't stand knowledge?
 23. Turn at my reproof. check this out,, I will pour out my spirit on ya. I will create known my words to ya.
 24. cuz I have called, and ya have refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no one has paid attention;
 25. but ya have ignored all my counsel, and wanted none of my reproof;
 26. I also will laugh at your disaster. I will mock when calamity overtakes ya;
 27. when calamity overtakes ya like a storm, when your disaster comes on like a whirlwind; when distress and anguish come through on ya.
 28. then will they call on me, but I won't answer. They will seek me diligently, but they won't find me;
 29. cuz they hated knowledge, and didn’t choose the fear of Yahweh.
 30. They wanted none of my counsel. They despised all my reproof.
 31. so basically they will eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own schemes.
 32. For the backsliding of the simple will kill them. The careless ease of fools will tear down them.
 33. But whoever listens to me will dwell securely, and will be at ease, without fear of harm.”
