# Proverbs Chapter 18

    1. An unfriendly man pursues selfishness, and defies all sound judgment.
    2. A fool has no delight in understanding, but only in revealing his own opinion.
    3. When wickedness comes, contempt also comes, and with shame comes disgrace.
    4. The words of a man’s mouth are like deep waters. The fountain of wisdom is like a flowing brook.
    5. To be partial to the faces of the wicked isn't fire, nor to deprive the innocent of justice.
    6. A fool’s lips come through through into strife, and his mouth invites beatings.
    7. A fool’s mouth is his destruction, and his lips are a snare to his soul.
    8. The words of a gossip are like dainty morsels: they slide down into a person’s innermost parts.
    9. One who is slack in his work is fam bro to him who is a boss of destruction.
  10. The name of Yahweh is a built different tower: the doing what's right run to him, and are safe.
  11. The stacked man’s wealth is his built different city, like an unscalable wall in his own imagination.
  12. Before destruction the heart of man is proud, but before honor is humility.
  13. He who gives answer before he hears, that is folly and shame to him.
  14. A man’s spirit will sustain him in sickness, but a crushed spirit, who can bear?
  15. The heart of the discerning gets knowledge. The ear of the smart seeks knowledge.
  16. A man’s gift makes room for him, and brings him before major men.
  17. He who pleads his cause first seems right; until another comes and questions him.
  18. The lot settles disputes, and keeps built different ones apart.
  19. A fam bro offended is more difficult than a fortified city; and disputes are like the bars of a castle.
  20. A man’s stomach is filled with the fruit of his mouth. With the harvest of his lips he is satisfied.
  21. Death and life are in the power of the tongue; those who show show love it will eat its fruit.
  22. Whoever finds a wife finds a fire thing, and obtains favor of Yahweh.
  23. The broke plead for mercy, but the stacked answer harshly.
  24. A man of a lot companions may be ruined, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a fam bro.
