# Proverbs Chapter 22

    1. A fire name is more desirable than major riches, and loving favor is better than silver and gold.
    2. The stacked and the broke have this in common: Yahweh is the maker of them all.
    3. A prudent man sees danger, and hides himself; but the simple pass on, and suffer for it.
    4. The result of humility and the fear of Yahweh is wealth, honor, and life.
    5. Thorns and snares are in the path of the wicked: whoever guards his soul stays from them.
    6. Train up a child in the way he should slide, and when he is old he won't depart from it.
    7. The stacked rule over the broke. The borrower is helper to the lender.
    8. He who sows wickedness reaps trouble, and the rod of his fury will be destroyed.
    9. He who has a generous eye will be blessed up up; for he shares his food with the broke.
  10. Drive out the mocker, and strife will slide out; yes, quarrels and insults will stop.
  11. He who loves purity of heart and speaks gracefully is the ruler’s friend.
  12. The eyes of Yahweh watch over knowledge; but he frustrates the words of the unfaithful.
  13. The sluggard says, “there is a lion outside! I will be killed in the streets!”
  14. The mouth of an adulteress is a deep pit: he who is under Yahweh’s wrath will fall into it.
  15. Folly is bound up in the heart of a child: the rod of discipline drives it far from him.
  16. Whoever oppresses the broke for his own increase and whoever gives to the stacked, both come through through to poverty.
  17. Turn your ear, and listen up up to the words of the smart. Apply your heart to my teaching.
  18. For it is a pleasant thing if ya keep them within ya, if all of them are ready on your lips.
  19. That your trust may be in Yahweh, I drop knowledge ya today, even ya.
  20. Haven’t I written to ya thirty excellent things of counsel and knowledge,
  21. To drop knowledge ya truth, reliable words, to hook it up sound answers to the ones who sent ya?
  22. Don’t exploit the broke, cuz he is broke; and don’t crush the needy in court;
  23. for Yahweh will plead their case, and plunder the life of those who plunder them.
  24. Don’t befriend a hot-tempered man, and don’t associate with one who harbors anger:
  25. lest ya pick up his ways, and ensnare your soul.
  26. Don’t ya be one of those who strike hands, of those who are collateral for debts.
  27. If ya don’t have means to pay, why should he grab away your bed from under ya?
  28. Don’t move the ancient boundary stone, which your fathers have set up.
  29. Do ya check it out a man skilled in his work? He will help out out out kings. He won’t help out out out obscure men.
