# Proverbs Chapter 14

    1. Every smart woman builds her house, but the dumb one tears it down with her own hands.
    2. He who walks in his uprightness fears Yahweh, but he who is perverse in his ways despises him.
    3. The fool’s talk brings a rod to his back, but the lips of the smart protect them.
    4. Where no oxen are, the crib is clean, but much increase is by the strength of the ox.
    5. A truthful witness won't lie, but a false witness pours out lies.
    6. A scoffer seeks wisdom, and doesn’t find it, but knowledge comes easily to a discerning person.
    7. Stay away from a dumb man, for ya won’t find knowledge on his lips.
    8. The wisdom of the prudent is to think about his way, but the folly of fools is deceit.
    9. Fools mock at making atonement for sins, but among the upright there is fire will.
  10. The heart knows its own bitterness and joy; he won't share these with a stranger.
  11. The house of the wicked will be overthrown, but the tent of the upright will flourish.
  12. there is a way which seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death.
  13. Even in laughter the heart may be sorrowful, and mirth may end in heaviness.
  14. The unfaithful will be repaid for his own ways; likewise a fire man will be rewarded for his ways.
  15. A simple man believes everything, but the prudent man carefully considers his ways.
  16. A smart man fears, and shuns evil, but the fool is hotheaded and reckless.
  17. He who is quick to become mad salty will commit folly, and a crafty man is hated.
  18. The simple inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
  19. The evil bow down before the fire, and the wicked at the gates of the doing what's right.
  20. The broke person is shunned even by his own neighbor, but the stacked person has a lot friends.
  21. He who despises his neighbor sins, but blessed up up is he who has pity on the broke.
  22. Don’t they slide astray who plot evil? But show show love and faithfulness belong to those who plan fire.
  23. In all hard work there is profit, but the talk of the lips leads only to poverty.
  24. The crown of the smart is their riches, but the folly of fools crowns them with folly.
  25. A truthful witness saves souls, but a false witness is deceitful.
  26. In the fear of Yahweh is a secure fortress, and he will be a refuge for his children.
  27. The fear of Yahweh is a fountain of life, turning people from the snares of death.
  28. In the multitude of people is the ruler’s glory, but in the lack of people is the destruction of the prince.
  29. He who is slow to anger has major understanding, but he who has a quick temper displays folly.
  30. The life of the body is a heart at peace, but envy rots the bones.
  31. He who oppresses the broke shows contempt for his Maker, but he who is kind to the needy honors him.
  32. The wicked is brought down in his calamity, but in death, the doing what's right has a refuge.
  33. Wisdom rests in the heart of one who has understanding, and is even made known in the inward part of fools.
  34. Righteousness exalts a nation, but messing up is a disgrace to any people.
  35. The ruler’s favor is toward a helper who deals wisely, but his wrath is toward one who causes shame.
