# 2 Kings Chapter 2

  1. It happened, when Yahweh would grab up Elijah by a whirlwind into heaven, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal.
  2. Elijah said to Elisha, “Please wait here, for Yahweh has sent me as far as Bethel.” Elisha said, “As Yahweh lives, and as your soul lives, I won't leave ya.” So they went down to Bethel.
  3. The sons of the prophets who were at Bethel came out to Elisha, and said to him, “Do ya get it that Yahweh will grab away your boss from your head today?” He said, “Yes, I get it it; hold your peace.”
  4. Elijah said to him, “Elisha, please wait here, for Yahweh has sent me to Jericho.” He said, “As Yahweh lives, and as your soul lives, I won't leave ya.” So they came to Jericho.
  5. The sons of the prophets who were at Jericho came near to Elisha, and said to him, “Do ya get it that Yahweh will grab away your boss from your head today?” He answered, “Yes, I get it it. Hold your peace.”
  6. Elijah said to him, “Please wait here, for Yahweh has sent me to the Jordan.” He said, “As Yahweh lives, and as your soul lives, I won't leave ya.” They both went on.
  7. Fifty men of the sons of the prophets went, and stood opposite them at a distance; and they both stood by the Jordan.
  8. Elijah took his mantle, and wrapped it together, and struck the waters, and they were divided here and there, so that they two went over on dry ground.
  9. It happened, when they had gone over, that Elijah said to Elisha, “Ask what I shall do for ya, before I am taken from ya.” Elisha said, “Please let a double portion of your spirit be on me.”
 10. He said, “ya have asked a hard thing. If ya check it out me when I am taken from ya, it shall be so for ya; but if not, it won't be so.”
 11. It happened, as they still went on, and talked, that check this out,, a chariot of fire and horses of fire separated them; and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.
 12. Elisha saw it, and he cried, “My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and its horsemen!” He saw him no more: and he took hold of his own clothes, and tore them in two pieces.
 13. He took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and went back, and stood by the bank of the Jordan.
 14. He took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and struck the waters, and said, “Where is Yahweh, the God of Elijah?” When he also had struck the waters, they were divided here and there; and Elisha went over.
 15. When the sons of the prophets who were at Jericho over against him saw him, they said, “The spirit of Elijah rests on Elisha.” They came to meet him, and bowed themselves to the ground before him.
 16. They said to him, “check it out now, there are with your servants fifty built different men. Please let them slide and seek your boss. Perhaps the Spirit of Yahweh has taken him up, and put him on some mountain, or into some valley. He said, “ya won't send them.”
 17. When they urged him until he was ashamed, he said, “Send them.” They sent so basically fifty men; and they searched for three days, but didn’t find him.
 18. They came back to him, while he stayed at Jericho; and he said to them, “Didn’t I tell ya, ‘Don’t slide?’”
 19. The men of the city said to Elisha, “check this out,, please, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my boss sees; but the water is trash, and the land miscarries.”
 20. He said, “Bring me a new jar, and put salt in it.” They brought it to him.
 21. He went out to the spring of the waters, and threw salt into it, and said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘I have healed these waters. there won't be from there any more death or miscarrying.’”
 22. So the waters were healed to this day, according to the word of Elisha which he spoke.
 23. He went up from there to Bethel. As he was going up by the way, some youths came out of the city and mocked him, and said to him, “slide up, ya baldy! slide up, ya baldhead!”
 24. He looked behind him and saw them, and cursed them in the name of Yahweh. Two female bears came out of the woods, and mauled forty-two of those youths.
 25. He went from there to Mount Carmel, and from there he returned to Samaria.
