# 2 Kings Chapter 20

    1. In those days was Hezekiah sick to death. Isaiah the God's messenger the son of Amoz came to him, and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Set your house in order; for ya shall die, and not live.’”
    2. then he turned his face to the wall, and prayed to Yahweh, saying,
    3. “Remember now, Yahweh, I beg ya, how I have walked before ya in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is fire in your sight.” Hezekiah wept bitterly.
    4. It happened, before Isaiah had gone out into the middle part of the city, that the word of Yahweh came to him, saying,
    5. “Turn back, and tell Hezekiah the prince of my people, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of David your father, “I have heard your talking to God. I have seen your tears. check this out, I will heal ya. On the third day, ya shall slide up to the house of Yahweh.
    6. I will add to your days fifteen years. I will deliver ya and this city out of the hand of the ruler of Assyria. I will defend this city for my own sake, and for my helper David’s sake.”’”
    7. Isaiah said, “grab a cake of figs.” They took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered.
    8. Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “What shall be the sign that Yahweh will heal me, and that I shall slide up to the house of Yahweh the third day?”
    9. Isaiah said, “This shall be the sign to ya from Yahweh, that Yahweh will do the thing that he has spoken: shall the shadow slide forward ten steps, or slide back ten steps?”
  10. Hezekiah answered, “It is a light thing for the shadow to slide forward ten steps. Nay, but let the shadow return backward ten steps.”
  11. Isaiah the God's messenger cried to Yahweh; and he brought the shadow ten steps backward, by which it had gone down on the dial of Ahaz.
  12. At that time Berodach Baladan the son of Baladan, ruler of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah; for he had heard that Hezekiah had been sick.
  13. Hezekiah listened to them, and showed them all the house of his precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and the precious oil, and the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion, that Hezekiah didn’t show them.
  14. then Isaiah the God's messenger came to ruler Hezekiah, and said to him, “What did these men say? From where did they come through through to ya?” Hezekiah said, “They have come through through from a far country, even from Babylon.”
  15. He said, “What have they seen in your house?” Hezekiah answered, “They have seen all that is in my house. there is nothing among my treasures that I have not shown them.”
  16. Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Hear the word of Yahweh.
  17. ‘check this out, the days come through through, that all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have laid up in store to this day, shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left,’ says Yahweh.
  18. ‘Of your sons who shall issue from ya, whom ya shall father, shall they grab away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the ruler of Babylon.’”
  19. then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “The word of Yahweh which ya have spoken is fire.” He said moreover, “Isn’t it so, if peace and truth shall be in my days?”
  20. now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and all his might, and how he made the pool, and the conduit, and brought water into the city, aren’t they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
  21. Hezekiah slept with his fathers; and Manasseh his son reigned in his place.
