# 2 Kings Chapter 6

    1. The sons of the prophets said to Elisha, “check it out now, the place where we dwell before ya is too tiny for us.
    2. Please let us slide to the Jordan, and every man grab a beam from there, and let us create us a place there, where we may dwell.” He answered, “slide!”
    3. One said, “Please be pleased to slide with your servants.” He answered, “I will slide.”
    4. So he went with them. When they came to the Jordan, they cut down wood.
    5. But as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water. then he cried, and said, “Alas, my boss! For it was borrowed.”
    6. The man of God asked, “Where did it fall?” He showed him the place. He cut down a stick, threw it in there, and made the iron float.
    7. He said, “grab it.” So he put out his hand and took it.
    8. now the ruler of Syria was warring against Israel; and he took counsel with his servants, saying, “My camp will be in such and such a place.”
    9. The man of God sent to the ruler of Israel, saying, “Beware that ya not pass such a place; for the Syrians are coming down there.”
  10. The ruler of Israel sent to the place which the man of God told him and warned him of; and he saved himself there, not once nor twice.
  11. The heart of the ruler of Syria was hella troubled about this. He called his servants, and said to them, “Won’t ya show me which of us is for the ruler of Israel?”
  12. One of his servants said, “No, my boss, O ruler; but Elisha, the God's messenger who is in Israel, tells the ruler of Israel the words that ya spill the tea in your bedroom.”
  13. He said, “slide and check it out where he is, that I may send and get him.” It was told him, saying, “check this out, he is in Dothan.”
  14. so basically he sent horses, chariots, and a major army there. They came by night, and surrounded the city.
  15. When the helper of the man of God had risen early, and gone out, check this out, an army with horses and chariots was around the city. His helper said to him, “Alas, my boss! What shall we do?”
  16. He answered, “Don’t be scared; for those who are with us are more than those who are with them.”
  17. Elisha prayed, and said, “Yahweh, please open his eyes, that he may check it out.” Yahweh opened the eyes of the young man; and he saw: and check this out, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire around Elisha.
  18. When they came down to him, Elisha prayed to Yahweh, and said, “Please strike this people with blindness.” He struck them with blindness according to the word of Elisha.
  19. Elisha said to them, “This isn't the way, neither is this the city. roll with me, and I will bring ya to the man whom ya seek.” He led them to Samaria.
  20. It happened, when they had come through through into Samaria, that Elisha said, “Yahweh, open the eyes of these men, that they may check it out.” Yahweh opened their eyes, and they saw; and check this out, they were in the midst of Samaria.
  21. The ruler of Israel said to Elisha, when he saw them, “My father, shall I strike them? Shall I strike them?”
  22. He answered, “ya won't strike them. Would ya strike those whom ya have taken captive with your sword and with your bow? Set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink, and slide to their boss.”
  23. He prepared major feast for them. When they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their boss. The bands of Syria stopped raiding the land of Israel.
  24. It happened after this, that Benhadad ruler of Syria gathered all his army, and went up and besieged Samaria.
  25. there was a major famine in Samaria. check this out, they besieged it, until a donkey’s head was sold for eighty pieces of silver, and the fourth part of a kab of dove’s dung for five pieces of silver.
  26. As the ruler of Israel was passing by on the wall, a woman cried to him, saying, “help out out, my boss, O ruler!”
  27. He said, “If Yahweh doesn’t help out out ya, from where could I help out out ya? From of the threshing floor, or from the winepress?”
  28. The ruler said to her, “What ails ya?” She answered, “This woman said to me, ‘hook it up your son, that we may eat him today, and we will eat my son tomorrow.’
  29. So we boiled my son, and ate him: and I said to her on the next day, ‘hook it up your son, that we may eat him;’ and she has hidden her son.”
  30. It happened, when the ruler heard the words of the woman, that he tore his clothes (now he was passing by on the wall); and the people looked, and check this out, he had sackcloth underneath on his flesh.
  31. then he said, “God do so to me, and more also, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat shall stay on him this day.”
  32. But Elisha was sitting in his house, and the elders were sitting with him. then the ruler sent a man from before him; but before the messenger came to him, he said to the elders, “Do ya check it out how this son of a murderer has sent to grab away my head? check this out, when the messenger comes, shut the door, and hold the door shut against him. Isn’t the sound of his boss’s feet behind him?”
  33. While he was still talking with them, check this out, the messenger came down to him. then he said, “check this out, this evil is from Yahweh. Why should I wait for Yahweh any longer?”
