# 2 Kings Chapter 16

    1. In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah Ahaz the son of Jotham ruler of Judah began to reign.
    2. Twenty years old was Ahaz when he began to reign; and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem: and he didn’t do that which was right in the eyes of Yahweh his God, like David his father.
    3. But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, yes, and made his son to pass through the fire, according to the abominations of the nations, whom Yahweh cast out from before the children of Israel.
    4. He sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, and on the hills, and under every green tree.
    5. then Rezin ruler of Syria and Pekah son of Remaliah ruler of Israel came up to Jerusalem to war: and they besieged Ahaz, but could not overcome him.
    6. At that time Rezin ruler of Syria recovered Elath to Syria, and drove the Jews from Elath; and the Syrians came to Elath, and lived there, to this day.
    7. So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath Pileser ruler of Assyria, saying, “I am your helper and your son. come through through up, and rescue me out of the hand of the ruler of Syria, and out of the hand of the ruler of Israel, who rise up against me.”
    8. Ahaz took the silver and gold that was found in the house of Yahweh, and in the treasures of the ruler’s house, and sent it for a present to the ruler of Assyria.
    9. The ruler of Assyria listened to him; and the ruler of Assyria went up against Damascus, and took it, and carried its people captive to Kir, and killed Rezin.
  10. ruler Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglath Pileser ruler of Assyria, and saw the talking to God spot that was at Damascus; and ruler Ahaz sent to Urijah the priest the fashion of the talking to God spot, and its pattern, according to all its workmanship.
  11. Urijah the priest built an talking to God spot: according to all that ruler Ahaz had sent from Damascus, so Urijah the priest made it for the coming of ruler Ahaz from Damascus.
  12. When the ruler had come through through from Damascus, the ruler saw the talking to God spot: and the ruler drew near to the talking to God spot, and offered on it.
  13. He burnt his burnt giving to God and his meal giving to God, and poured his drink giving to God, and sprinkled the blood of his peace offerings, on the talking to God spot.
  14. The bronze talking to God spot, which was before Yahweh, he brought from the forefront of the house, from between his talking to God spot and the house of Yahweh, and put it on the north side of his talking to God spot.
  15. ruler Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, “On the major talking to God spot burn the morning burnt giving to God, and the evening meal giving to God, and the ruler’s burnt giving to God, and his meal giving to God, with the burnt giving to God of all the people of the land, and their meal giving to God, and their drink offerings; and sprinkle on it all the blood of the burnt giving to God, and all the blood of the giving it up; but the bronze talking to God spot shall be for me to inquire by.”
  16. Urijah the priest did so, according to all that ruler Ahaz commanded.
  17. ruler Ahaz cut off the panels of the bases, and removed the basin from off them, and took down the sea from off the bronze oxen that were under it, and put it on a pavement of stone.
  18. The covered way for the Sabbath that they had built in the house, and the ruler’s entry outside, turned he to the house of Yahweh, cuz of the ruler of Assyria.
  19. now the rest of the acts of Ahaz which he did, aren’t they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
  20. Ahaz slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David: and Hezekiah his son reigned in his place.
