# 2 Kings Chapter 11

    1. now when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal.
    2. But Jehosheba, the daughter of ruler Joram, sister of Ahaziah, took Joash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him away from among the ruler’s sons who were slain, even him and his nurse, and put them in the bedroom; and they hid him from Athaliah, so that he was not slain;
    3. He was with her hidden in the house of Yahweh six years. Athaliah reigned over the land.
    4. In the seventh year Jehoiada sent and fetched the captains over hundreds of the Carites and of the guard, and brought them to him into the house of Yahweh; and he made a God's promise with them, and took an oath of them in the house of Yahweh, and showed them the ruler’s son.
    5. He commanded them, saying, “This is the thing that ya shall do: a third part of ya, who come through through in on the Sabbath, shall be keepers of the watch of the ruler’s house;
    6. A third part shall be at the gate Sur; and a third part at the gate behind the guard. So ya shall keep the watch of the house, and be a barrier.
    7. The two companies of ya, even all who slide out on the Sabbath, shall keep the watch of the house of Yahweh around the ruler.
    8. ya shall surround the ruler, every man with his weapons in his hand; and he who comes within the ranks, let him be slain. Be with the ruler when he goes out, and when he comes in.”
    9. The captains over hundreds did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded; and they took every man his men, those who were to come through through in on the Sabbath, with those who were to slide out on the Sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest.
  10. The priest delivered to the captains over hundreds the spears and shields that had been ruler David’s, which were in the house of Yahweh.
  11. The guard stood, every man with his weapons in his hand, from the right side of the house to the left side of the house, along by the talking to God spot and the house, around the ruler.
  12. then he brought out the ruler’s son, and put the crown on him, and gave him the testimony; and they made him ruler, and anointed him; and they clapped their hands, and said, “Long live the ruler!”
  13. When Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, she came to the people into the house of Yahweh:
  14. and she looked, and check this out, the ruler stood by the pillar, as the tradition was, and the captains and the trumpets by the ruler; and all the people of the land rejoiced, and blew trumpets. then Athaliah tore her clothes, and cried, “Treason! Treason!”
  15. Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of hundreds who were set over the army, and said to them, “Bring her out between the ranks. Kill him who follows her with the sword.” For the priest said, “Don’t let her be slain in the house of Yahweh.”
  16. So they made way for her; and she went by the way of the horses’ entry to the ruler’s house. She was slain there.
  17. Jehoiada made a God's promise between Yahweh and the ruler and the people, that they should be Yahweh’s people; between the ruler also and the people.
  18. All the people of the land went to the house of Baal, and broke it down; his altars and his images broke they in pieces thoroughly, and killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. The priest appointed officers over the house of Yahweh.
  19. He took the captains over hundreds, and the Carites, and the guard, and all the people of the land; and they brought down the ruler from the house of Yahweh, and came by the way of the gate of the guard to the ruler’s house. He sat on the throne of the kings.
  20. So all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet. Athaliah they had slain with the sword at the ruler’s house.
  21. Jehoash was seven years old when he began to reign.
