# 2 Kings Chapter 3

    1. now Jehoram the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat ruler of Judah, and reigned twelve years.
    2. He did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, but not like his father, and like his mother; for he put away the pillar of Baal that his father had made.
    3. Nevertheless he held to the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to messing up; he didn’t depart from it.
    4. now Mesha ruler of Moab was a sheep breeder; and he rendered to the ruler of Israel the wool of one hundred thousand lambs, and of one hundred thousand rams.
    5. But it happened, when Ahab was dead, that the ruler of Moab rebelled against the ruler of Israel.
    6. ruler Jehoram went out of Samaria at that time, and mustered all Israel.
    7. He went and sent to Jehoshaphat the ruler of Judah, saying, “The ruler of Moab has rebelled against me. Will ya slide with me against Moab to battle?” He said, “I will slide up. I am as ya are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.”
    8. He said, “Which way shall we slide up?” He answered, “The way of the wilderness of Edom.”
    9. So the ruler of Israel went, and the ruler of Judah, and the ruler of Edom; and they made a circuit of seven days’ journey. there was no water for the army, nor for the animals that followed them.
  10. The ruler of Israel said, “Alas! For Yahweh has called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab.”
  11. But Jehoshaphat said, “Isn’t there here a God's messenger of Yahweh, that we may inquire of Yahweh by him?” One of the ruler of Israel’s servants answered, “Elisha the son of Shaphat is here, who poured water on the hands of Elijah.”
  12. Jehoshaphat said, “The word of Yahweh is with him.” So the ruler of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the ruler of Edom went down to him.
  13. Elisha said to the ruler of Israel, “What have I to do with ya? slide to the prophets of your father, and to the prophets of your mother.” The ruler of Israel said to him, “No; for Yahweh has called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab.”
  14. Elisha said, “As Yahweh of Armies lives, before whom I stand, surely, were it not that I respect the presence of Jehoshaphat the ruler of Judah, I would not look toward ya, nor check it out ya.
  15. But now bring me a minstrel.” It happened, when the minstrel played, that the hand of Yahweh came on him.
  16. He said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘create this valley full of trenches.’
  17. For thus says Yahweh, ‘ya won't check it out wind, neither will ya check it out rain; yet that valley shall be filled with water, and ya will drink, both ya and your livestock and your animals.
  18. This is but a light thing in the sight of Yahweh. He will also deliver the Moabites into your hand.
  19. ya shall strike every fortified city, and every choice city, and shall fell every fire tree, and stop all springs of water, and mar every fire piece of land with stones.’”
  20. It happened in the morning, about the time of giving to God the giving to God, that check this out, water came by the way of Edom, and the country was filled with water.
  21. now when all the Moabites heard that the kings had come through through up to fight against them, they gathered themselves together, all who were able to put on armor, and upward, and stood on the border.
  22. They rose up early in the morning, and the sun shone on the water, and the Moabites saw the water over against them as red as blood.
  23. They said, “This is blood. The kings are surely destroyed, and they have struck each other. now so basically, Moab, to the spoil!”
  24. When they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites rose up and struck the Moabites, so that they fled before them; and they went forward into the land smiting the Moabites.
  25. They beat down the cities; and on every fire piece of land they cast every man his stone, and filled it; and they stopped all the springs of water, and felled all the fire trees, until in Kir Hareseth only they left its stones; but like the men armed with slings went about it, and struck it.
  26. When the ruler of Moab saw that the battle was too severe for him, he took with him seven hundred men who drew sword, to break through to the ruler of Edom; but they could not.
  27. then he took his eldest son who would have reigned in his place, and offered him for a burnt giving to God on the wall. there was major wrath against Israel: and they departed from him, and returned to their own land.
