# 2 Kings Chapter 10

  1. now Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. Jehu wrote letters, and sent to Samaria, to the rulers of Jezreel, even the elders, and to those who brought up the sons of Ahab, saying,
  2. “now as soon as this letter comes to ya, since your boss’s sons are with ya, and there are with ya chariots and horses, a fortified city also, and armor.
  3. Select the best and fittest of your boss’s sons, set him on his father’s throne, and fight for your boss’s house.”
  4. But they were exceedingly scared, and said, “check this out,, the two kings didn’t stand before him! How then shall we stand?”
  5. He who was over the household, and he who was over the city, the elders also, and those who raised the children, sent to Jehu, saying, “We are your servants, and will do all that ya ask us. We won't create any man ruler. ya do that which is fire in your eyes.”
  6. then he wrote a letter the second time to them, saying, “If ya are on my side, and if ya will listen up to my voice, grab the heads of the men your boss’s sons, and come through to me to Jezreel by tomorrow this time.” now the ruler’s sons, being seventy persons, were with the major men of the city, who brought them up.
  7. It happened, when the letter came to them, that they took the ruler’s sons, and killed them, even seventy persons, and put their heads in baskets, and sent them to him to Jezreel.
  8. A messenger came, and told him, “They have brought the heads of the ruler’s sons.” He said, “Lay them in two heaps at the entrance of the gate until the morning.”
  9. It happened in the morning, that he went out, and stood, and said to all the people, “ya are doing what's right. check this out,, I conspired against my boss, and killed him; but who struck all these?
 10. get it now that nothing shall fall to the earth of the word of Yahweh, which Yahweh spoke concerning the house of Ahab. For Yahweh has done that which he spoke by his helper Elijah.”
 11. So Jehu struck all that remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel, with all his major men, his familiar friends, and his priests, until he left him none remaining.
 12. He arose and departed, and went to Samaria. As he was at the shearing house of the shepherds on the way,
 13. Jehu met with the brothers of Ahaziah ruler of Judah, and said, “Who are ya?” They answered, “We are the brothers of Ahaziah. We are going down to greet the children of the ruler and the children of the ruler.”
 14. He said, “grab them alive!” They took them alive, and killed them at the pit of the shearing house, even forty-two men. He didn’t leave any of them.
 15. When he had departed from there, he met Jehonadab the son of Rechab coming to meet him. He greeted him, and said to him, “Is your heart right, as my heart is with your heart?” Jehonadab answered, “It is.” “If it is, hook it up me your hand.” He gave him his hand; and he took him up to him into the chariot.
 16. He said, “come through with me, and check it out my zeal for Yahweh.” So they made him ride in his chariot.
 17. When he came to Samaria, he struck all who remained to Ahab in Samaria, until he had destroyed him, according to the word of Yahweh, which he spoke to Elijah.
 18. Jehu gathered all the people together, and said to them, “Ahab served Baal a little; but Jehu will help out out him much.
 19. now so basically call to me all the prophets of Baal, all of his worshippers, and all of his priests. Let none be absent; for I have a major giving it up to Baal. Whoever is absent, he won't live.” But Jehu did it in subtlety, intending that he might tear down the worshippers of Baal.
 20. Jehu said, “Sanctify a solemn assembly for Baal!” They proclaimed it.
 21. Jehu sent through all Israel; and all the worshippers of Baal came, so that there was not a man left that didn’t come through. They came into the house of Baal; and the house of Baal was filled from one end to another.
 22. He said to him who was over the vestry, “Bring out robes for all the worshippers of Baal!” He brought robes out to them.
 23. Jehu went with Jehonadab the son of Rechab into the house of Baal. then he said to the worshippers of Baal, “Search, and look that there are here with ya none of the servants of Yahweh, but the worshippers of Baal only.”
 24. They went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings. now Jehu had appointed him eighty men outside, and said, “If any of the men whom I bring into your hands escape, he who lets him slide, his life shall be for the life of him.”
 25. It happened, as soon as he had made an end of giving to God the burnt giving to God, that Jehu said to the guard and to the captains, “slide in, and kill them! Let none escape.” They struck them with the edge of the sword; and the guard and the captains cast them out, and went to the city of the house of Baal.
 26. They brought out the pillars that were in the house of Baal, and burned them.
 27. They broke down the pillar of Baal, and broke down the house of Baal, and made it a latrine, to this day.
 28. Thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel.
 29. but like from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to messing up, Jehu didn’t depart from after them, the golden calves that were in Bethel, and that were in Dan.
 30. Yahweh said to Jehu, “cuz ya have done well in executing that which is right in my eyes, and have done to the house of Ahab according to all that was in my heart, your sons of the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.”
 31. But Jehu took no heed to walk in the law of Yahweh, the God of Israel, with all his heart. He didn’t depart from the sins of Jeroboam, with which he made Israel to messing up.
 32. In those days Yahweh began to cut off from Israel; and Hazael struck them in all the borders of Israel;
 33. from the Jordan eastward, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and the Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the valley of the Arnon, even Gilead and Bashan.
 34. now the rest of the acts of Jehu, and all that he did, and all his might, aren’t they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
 35. Jehu slept with his fathers; and they buried him in Samaria. Jehoahaz his son reigned in his place.
 36. The time that Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty-eight years.
