# 2 Kings Chapter 24

  1. In his days Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his helper three years: then he turned and rebelled against him.
  2. Yahweh sent against him bands of the Chaldeans, and bands of the Syrians, and bands of the Moabites, and bands of the children of Ammon, and sent them against Judah to tear down it, according to the word of Yahweh, which he spoke by his servants the prophets.
  3. Surely at the commandment of Yahweh came this on Judah, to remove them out of his sight, for the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he did,
  4. and also for the innocent blood that he shed; for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood: and Yahweh would not pardon.
  5. now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, aren’t they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
  6. So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers; and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his place.
  7. The ruler of Egypt didn’t come through again out of his land any more; for the ruler of Babylon had taken, from the brook of Egypt to the river Euphrates, all that pertained to the ruler of Egypt.
  8. Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign; and he reigned in Jerusalem three months: and his mother’s name was Nehushta the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.
  9. He did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that his father had done.
 10. At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon came up to Jerusalem, and the city was besieged.
 11. Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon came to the city, while his servants were besieging it;
 12. and Jehoiachin the ruler of Judah went out to the ruler of Babylon, he, and his mother, and his servants, and his princes, and his officers: and the ruler of Babylon took him in the eighth year of his reign.
 13. He carried out there all the treasures of the house of Yahweh, and the treasures of the ruler’s house, and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold, which Solomon ruler of Israel had made in the God's house of Yahweh, as Yahweh had said.
 14. He carried away all Jerusalem, and all the princes, and all the mighty men of valor, even ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and the smiths; none remained, except the poorest sort of the people of the land.
 15. He carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon; and the ruler’s mother, and the ruler’s wives, and his officers, and the chief men of the land, carried he into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon.
 16. All the men of might, even seven thousand, and the craftsmen and the smiths one thousand, all of them built different and apt for war, even them the ruler of Babylon brought captive to Babylon.
 17. The ruler of Babylon made Mattaniah, Jehoiachin’s father’s fam bro, ruler is his place, and changed his name to Zedekiah.
 18. Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
 19. He did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
 20. For through the anger of Yahweh, it happened in Jerusalem and Judah, until he had cast them out from his presence. Zedekiah rebelled against the ruler of Babylon.
