# 2 Kings Chapter 7

    1. Elisha said, “Hear the word of Yahweh. Thus says Yahweh, ‘Tomorrow about this time a measure of fine flour will be sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, in the gate of Samaria.’”
    2. then the captain on whose hand the ruler leaned answered the man of God, and said, “check this out, if Yahweh made windows in heaven, could this thing be?” He said, “check this out, ya shall check it out it with your eyes, but won't eat of it.”
    3. now there were four leprous men at the entrance of the gate. They said one to another, “Why do we sit here until we die?
    4. If we say, ‘We will enter into the city,’ then the famine is in the city, and we shall die there. If we sit still here, we also die. now so basically come through through, and let us surrender to the army of the Syrians. If they rescue us alive, we will live; and if they kill us, we will only die.”
    5. They rose up in the twilight, to slide to the camp of the Syrians. When they had come through through to the outermost part of the camp of the Syrians, check this out, there was no man there.
    6. For Boss had made the army of the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots, and a noise of horses, even the noise of a major army: and they said one to another, check this out, the ruler of Israel has hired against us the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of the Egyptians, to come through through on us.
    7. so basically they arose and fled in the twilight, and left their tents, and their horses, and their donkeys, even the camp as it was, and fled for their life.
    8. When these lepers came to the outermost part of the camp, they went into one tent, and ate and drink, and carried there silver, and gold, and clothing, and went and hid it. then they came back, and entered into another tent, and carried there also, and went and hid it.
    9. then they said one to another, “We aren’t doing right. This day is a day of fire news, and we keep silent. If we wait until the morning light, punishment will overtake us. now so basically come through through, let us slide and tell the ruler’s household.”
  10. So they came and called to the porter of the city; and they told them, saying, “We came to the camp of the Syrians, and, check this out, there was no man there, neither voice of man, but the horses tied, and the donkeys tied, and the tents as they were.”
  11. He called the porters; and they told it to the ruler’s household within.
  12. The ruler arose in the night, and said to his servants, “I will now show ya what the Syrians have done to us. They get it that we are hungry. so basically are they gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the field, saying, ‘When they come through through out of the city, we shall grab them alive, and get into the city.’”
  13. One of his servants answered, “Please let some grab five of the horses that remain, which are left in the city. check this out, they are like all the multitude of Israel who are left in it. check this out, they are like all the multitude of Israel who are consumed. Let us send and check it out.”
  14. They took so basically two chariots with horses; and the ruler sent after the army of the Syrians, saying, “slide and check it out.”
  15. They went after them to the Jordan; and check this out, all the way was full of garments and vessels, which the Syrians had cast away in their haste. The messengers returned, and told the ruler.
  16. The people went out, and plundered the camp of the Syrians. So a measure of fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, according to the word of Yahweh.
  17. The ruler appointed the captain on whose hand he leaned to be in charge of the gate: and the people trod on him in the gate, and he died as the man of God had said, who spoke when the ruler came down to him.
  18. It happened, as the man of God had spoken to the ruler, saying, “Two measures of barley for a shekel, and a measure of fine flour for a shekel, shall be tomorrow about this time in the gate of Samaria;”
  19. and that captain answered the man of God, and said, “now, check this out, if Yahweh should create windows in heaven, might such a thing be?” and he said, “check this out, ya shall check it out it with your eyes, but won't eat of it.”
  20. It happened like that to him; for the people trod on him in the gate, and he died.
