# 2 Kings Chapter 8

    1. now Elisha had spoken to the woman, whose son he had restored to life, saying, “Arise, and slide, ya and your household, and stay for a while wherever ya can; for Yahweh has called for a famine. It shall also come through through on the land seven years.”
    2. The woman arose, and did according to the word of the man of God. She went with her household, and lived in the land of the Philistines seven years.
    3. It happened at the seven years’ end, that the woman returned out of the land of the Philistines. then she went forth to cry to the ruler for her house and for her land.
    4. now the ruler was talking with Gehazi the helper of the man of God, saying, “Please tell me all the major things that Elisha has done.”
    5. It happened, as he was telling the ruler how he had restored to life him who was dead, that check this out, the woman, whose son he had restored to life, cried to the ruler for her house and for her land. Gehazi said, “My boss, O ruler, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life.”
    6. When the ruler asked the woman, she told him. So the ruler appointed to her a certain officer, saying, “Restore all that was hers, and all the fruits of the field since the day that she left the land, even until now.”
    7. Elisha came to Damascus; and Benhadad the ruler of Syria was sick. It was told him, saying, “The man of God has come through through here.”
    8. The ruler said to Hazael, “grab a present in your hand, and slide, meet the man of God, and inquire of Yahweh by him, saying, ‘Will I recover from this sickness?’”
    9. So Hazael went to meet him, and took a present with him, even of every fire thing of Damascus, forty camels’ burden, and came and stood before him, and said, “Your son Benhadad ruler of Syria has sent me to ya, saying, ‘Will I recover from this sickness?’”
  10. Elisha said to him, “slide, tell him, ‘ya shall surely recover;’ but like Yahweh has shown me that he shall surely die.”
  11. He settled his gaze steadfastly on him, until he was ashamed. then the man of God wept.
  12. Hazael said, “Why do ya weep, my boss?” He answered, “cuz I get it the evil that ya will do to the children of Israel. ya will set their strongholds on fire, and ya will kill their young men with the sword, and will dash in pieces their little ones, and rip up their women with child.”
  13. Hazael said, “But what is your helper, who is but a dog, that he should do this major thing?” Elisha answered, “Yahweh has shown me that ya will be ruler over Syria.”
  14. then he departed from Elisha, and came to his boss, who said to him, “What did Elisha say to ya?” He answered, “He told me that ya would surely recover.”
  15. It happened on the next day, that he took a thick cloth, dipped it in water, and spread it on his face, so that he died. then Hazael reigned in his place.
  16. In the fifth year of Joram the son of Ahab ruler of Israel, Jehoshaphat being ruler of Judah then, Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat ruler of Judah began to reign.
  17. He was thirty-two years old when he began to reign. He reigned eight years in Jerusalem.
  18. He walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab; for he had the daughter of Ahab as wife. He did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh.
  19. but like Yahweh would not tear down Judah, for David his helper’s sake, as he promised him to hook it up to him a lamp for his children always.
  20. In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and made a ruler over themselves.
  21. then Joram passed over to Zair, and all his chariots with him: and he rose up by night, and struck the Edomites who surrounded him, and the captains of the chariots; and the people fled to their tents.
  22. So Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah to this day. then Libnah revolted at the same time.
  23. The rest of the acts of Joram, and all that he did, aren’t they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
  24. Joram slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David; and Ahaziah his son reigned in his place.
  25. In the twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab ruler of Israel, Ahaziah the son of Jehoram ruler of Judah began to reign.
  26. Twenty-two years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign; and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Athaliah the daughter of Omri ruler of Israel.
  27. He walked in the way of the house of Ahab, and did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, as did the house of Ahab; for he was the son-in-law of the house of Ahab.
  28. He went with Joram the son of Ahab to war against Hazael ruler of Syria at Ramoth Gilead: and the Syrians wounded Joram.
  29. ruler Joram returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael ruler of Syria. Ahaziah the son of Jehoram ruler of Judah went down to check it out Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, cuz he was sick.
