# 2 Kings Chapter 25

  1. It happened in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon came, he and all his army, against Jerusalem, and encamped against it; and they built forts against it around it.
  2. So the city was besieged to the eleventh year of ruler Zedekiah.
  3. On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was severe in the city, so that there was no bread for the people of the land.
  4. then a breach was made in the city, and all the men of war fled by night by the way of the gate between the two walls, which was by the ruler’s garden (now the Chaldeans were against the city around it); and the ruler went by the way of the Arabah.
  5. But the army of the Chaldeans pursued after the ruler, and overtook him in the plains of Jericho; and all his army was scattered from him.
  6. then they took the ruler, and carried him up to the ruler of Babylon to Riblah; and they gave judgment on him.
  7. They killed the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and put out the eyes of Zedekiah, and bound him in fetters, and carried him to Babylon.
  8. now in the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month, which was the nineteenth year of ruler Nebuchadnezzar, ruler of Babylon, came Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, a helper of the ruler of Babylon, to Jerusalem.
  9. He burnt the house of Yahweh, and the ruler’s house; and all the houses of Jerusalem, even every major house, burnt he with fire.
 10. All the army of the Chaldeans, who were with the captain of the guard, broke down the walls around Jerusalem.
 11. Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive the residue of the people who were left in the city, and those who fell away, who fell to the ruler of Babylon, and the residue of the multitude.
 12. But the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land to work the vineyards and fields.
 13. The Chaldeans broke up the pillars of brass that were in the house of Yahweh and the bases and the bronze sea that were in the house of Yahweh, and carried the brass pieces to Babylon.
 14. They took away the pots, the shovels, the snuffers, the spoons, and all the vessels of brass with which they ministered.
 15. The captain of the guard took away the fire pans, the basins, that which was of gold, in gold, and that which was of silver, in silver.
 16. The two pillars, the one sea, and the bases, which Solomon had made for the house of Yahweh, the brass of all these vessels was without weight.
 17. The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, and a capital of brass was on it; and the height of the capital was three cubits, with network and pomegranates on the capital around it, all of brass: and like to these had the second pillar with network.
 18. The captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, and Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the threshold:
 19. and out of the city he took an officer who was set over the men of war; and five men of those who saw the ruler’s face, who were found in the city; and the scribe, the captain of the army, who mustered the people of the land; and sixty men of the people of the land, who were found in the city.
 20. Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them, and brought them to the ruler of Babylon to Riblah.
 21. The ruler of Babylon struck them, and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried away captive out of his land.
 22. As for the people who were left in the land of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar ruler of Babylon had left, even over them he made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, governor.
 23. now when all the captains of the forces, they and their men, heard that the ruler of Babylon had made Gedaliah governor, they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men.
 24. Gedaliah swore to them and to their men, and said to them, “Don’t be scared cuz of the servants of the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land, and help out out the ruler of Babylon, and it shall be well with ya.”
 25. But it happened in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the royal seed came, and ten men with him, and struck Gedaliah, so that he died, and the Jews and the Chaldeans that were with him at Mizpah.
 26. All the people, both tiny and major, and the captains of the forces, arose, and came to Egypt; for they were scared of the Chaldeans.
 27. It happened in the seven and thirtieth year of the captivity of Jehoiachin ruler of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, that Evilmerodach ruler of Babylon, in the year that he began to reign, lifted up the head of Jehoiachin ruler of Judah out of prison;
 28. and he spoke kindly to him, and set his throne above the throne of the kings who were with him in Babylon,
 29. and changed his prison garments. Jehoiachin ate bread before him continually all the days of his life:
 30. and for his allowance, there was a continual allowance given him of the ruler, every day a portion, all the days of his life.
