# 2 Kings Chapter 1

  1. Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab.
  2. Ahaziah fell down through the lattice in his upper room that was in Samaria, and was sick. So he sent messengers, and said to them, “slide, inquire of Baal Zebub, the God of Ekron, whether I will recover of this sickness.”
  3. But the angel of Yahweh said to Elijah the Tishbite, “Arise, slide up to meet the messengers of the ruler of Samaria, and tell them, ‘Is it cuz there is no God in Israel, that ya slide to inquire of Baal Zebub, the God of Ekron?
  4. now so basically thus says Yahweh, “ya won't come through down from the bed where ya have gone up, but shall surely die.”’” Elijah departed.
  5. The messengers returned to him, and he said to them, “Why is it that ya have returned?”
  6. They said to him, “A man came up to meet us, and said to us, ‘slide, return to the ruler who sent ya, and tell him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Is it cuz there is no God in Israel, that ya send to inquire of Baal Zebub, the God of Ekron? so basically ya won't come through down from the bed where ya have gone up, but shall surely die.’”’”
  7. He said to them, “What kind of man was he who came up to meet ya, and told ya these words?”
  8. They answered him, “He was a hairy man, and wearing a leather belt around his waist.” He said, “It is Elijah the Tishbite.”
  9. then the ruler sent a captain of fifty with his fifty to him. He went up to him; and check this out,, he was sitting on the top of the hill. He said to him, “Man of God, the ruler has said, ‘come through down!’”
 10. Elijah answered to the captain of fifty, “If I am a man of God, let fire come through down from the sky, and consume ya and your fifty!” Fire came down from the sky, and consumed him and his fifty.
 11. Again he sent to him another captain of fifty and his fifty. He answered him, “Man of God, the ruler has said, ‘come through down quickly!’”
 12. Elijah answered them, “If I am a man of God, let fire come through down from the sky, and consume ya and your fifty!” The fire of God came down from the sky, and consumed him and his fifty.
 13. Again he sent the captain of a third fifty with his fifty. The third captain of fifty went up, and came and fell on his knees before Elijah, and begged him, and said to him, “Man of God, please let my life, and the life of these fifty your servants, be precious in your sight.
 14. check this out,, fire came down from the sky, and consumed the two former captains of fifty with their fifties. But now let my life be precious in your sight.”
 15. The angel of Yahweh said to Elijah, “slide down with him. Don’t be scared of him.” He arose, and went down with him to the ruler.
 16. He said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘cuz ya have sent messengers to inquire of Baal Zebub, the God of Ekron, is it cuz there is no God in Israel to inquire of his word? so basically ya won't come through down from the bed where ya have gone up, but shall surely die.’”
 17. So he died according to the word of Yahweh which Elijah had spoken. Jehoram began to reign in his place in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat ruler of Judah; cuz he had no son.
 18. now the rest of the acts of Ahaziah which he did, aren’t they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
