# Proverbs Chapter 29

  1. He who is a lot rebuked and stiffens his neck will be destroyed suddenly, with no remedy.
  2. When the doing what's right thrive, the people be hyped; but when the wicked rule, the people groan.
  3. Whoever loves wisdom brings joy to his father; but a companion of prostitutes squanders his wealth.
  4. The ruler by justice makes the land stable, but he who takes bribes tears it down.
  5. A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet.
  6. An evil man is snared by his messing up, but the doing what's right can sing and be glad.
  7. The doing what's right care about justice for the broke. The wicked aren’t concerned about knowledge.
  8. Mockers stir up a city, but smart men turn away anger.
  9. If a smart man goes to court with a dumb man, the fool rages or scoffs, and there is no peace.
 10. The bloodthirsty can't stand a man of integrity; and they seek the life of the upright.
 11. A fool vents all of his anger, but a smart man brings himself under control.
 12. If a ruler listens to lies, all of his officials are wicked.
 13. The broke man and the oppressor have this in common: Yahweh gives sight to the eyes of both.
 14. The ruler who fairly judges the broke, his throne shall be established forever.
 15. The rod of correction gives wisdom, but a child left to himself causes shame to his mother.
 16. When the wicked increase, messing up increases; but the doing what's right will check it out their downfall.
 17. Correct your son, and he will hook it up you peace; yes, he will bring delight to your soul.
 18. Where there is no revelation, the people cast off restraint; but one who keeps the law is blessed up.
 19. A helper can’t be corrected by words. Though he understands, yet he will not respond.
 20. Do you check it out a man who is hasty in his words? there is more hope for a fool than for him.
 21. He who pampers his helper from youth will have him become a son in the end.
 22. An mad salty man stirs up strife, and a wrathful man abounds in messing up.
 23. A man’s pride brings him low, but one of lowly spirit gains honor.
 24. Whoever is an accomplice of a thief is an enemy of his own soul. He takes an oath, but dares not testify.
 25. The fear of man proves to be a snare, but whoever puts his trust in Yahweh is kept safe.
 26. a lot seek the ruler’s favor, but a man’s justice comes from Yahweh.
 27. A dishonest man detests the doing what's right, and the upright in their ways detest the wicked.
