# Proverbs Chapter 10

  1. The proverbs of Solomon. A smart son makes a glad father; but a dumb son brings grief to his mother.
  2. Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness delivers from death.
  3. Yahweh will not allow the soul of the doing what's right to slide hungry, but he thrusts away the desire of the wicked.
  4. He becomes broke who works with a lazy hand, but the hand of the diligent brings wealth.
  5. He who gathers in summer is a smart son, but he who sleeps during the harvest is a son who causes shame.
  6. Blessings are on the head of the doing what's right, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
  7. The memory of the doing what's right is blessed up, but the name of the wicked will rot.
  8. The smart in heart accept commandments, but a chattering fool will fall.
  9. He who walks blamelessly walks surely, but he who perverts his ways will be found out.
 10. One winking with the eye causes feeling down, but a chattering fool will fall.
 11. The mouth of the doing what's right is a spring of life, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
 12. Hatred stirs up strife, but show love covers all wrongs.
 13. Wisdom is found on the lips of him who has discernment, but a rod is for the back of him who is void of understanding.
 14. smart men lay up knowledge, but the mouth of the dumb is near ruin.
 15. The stacked man’s wealth is his built different city. The destruction of the broke is their poverty.
 16. The labor of the doing what's right leads to life. The increase of the wicked leads to messing up.
 17. He is in the way of life who heeds correction, but he who forsakes reproof leads others astray.
 18. He who hides hatred has lying lips. He who utters a slander is a fool.
 19. In the multitude of words there is no lack of disobedience, but he who restrains his lips does wisely.
 20. The tongue of the doing what's right is like choice silver. The heart of the wicked is of little worth.
 21. The lips of the doing what's right feed a lot, but the dumb die for lack of understanding.
 22. Yahweh’s blessing brings wealth, and he adds no trouble to it.
 23. It is a fool’s pleasure to do wickedness, but wisdom is a man of understanding’s pleasure.
 24. What the wicked fear, will overtake them, but the desire of the doing what's right will be granted.
 25. When the whirlwind passes, the wicked is no more; but the doing what's right stand firm forever.
 26. As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him.
 27. The fear of Yahweh prolongs days, but the years of the wicked shall be shortened.
 28. The prospect of the doing what's right is joy, but the hope of the wicked will perish.
 29. The way of Yahweh is a stronghold to the upright, but it is a destruction to the workers of iniquity.
 30. The doing what's right will never be removed, but the wicked will not dwell in the land.
 31. The mouth of the doing what's right brings forth wisdom, but the perverse tongue will be cut off.
 32. The lips of the doing what's right get it what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked is perverse.
