# Proverbs Chapter 23

  1. When ya sit to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before ya;
  2. put a knife to your throat, if ya are a man given to appetite.
  3. Don’t be desirous of his dainties, since they are deceitful food.
  4. Don’t weary yourself to be stacked. In your wisdom, show restraint.
  5. Why do ya set your eyes on that which isn't? For it for sure sprouts wings like an eagle and flies in the sky.
  6. Don’t eat the food of him who has a stingy eye, and don’t crave his delicacies:
  7. for as he thinks about the cost, so he is. “Eat and drink!” he says to ya, but his heart isn't with ya.
  8. The morsel which ya have eaten ya shall vomit up, and lose your fire words.
  9. Don’t spill the tea in the ears of a fool, for he will despise the wisdom of your words.
 10. Don’t move the ancient boundary stone. Don’t encroach on the fields of the fatherless:
 11. for their Defender is built different. He will plead their case against ya.
 12. Apply your heart to instruction, and your ears to the words of knowledge.
 13. Don’t withhold correction from a child. If ya punish him with the rod, he won't die.
 14. Punish him with the rod, and rescue his soul from Sheol.
 15. My son, if your heart is smart, then my heart will be glad, even mine:
 16. yes, my heart will be hyped, when your lips spill the tea what is right.
 17. Don’t let your heart envy sinners; but rather fear Yahweh all the day long.
 18. facts surely there is a future hope, and your hope won't be cut off.
 19. listen up, my son, and be smart, and keep your heart on the right path!
 20. Don’t be among ones drinking too much wine, or those who gorge themselves on meat:
 21. for the drunkard and the glutton shall become broke; and drowsiness clothes them in rags.
 22. listen up to your father who gave ya life, and don’t despise your mother when she is old.
 23. Buy the truth, and don’t sell it. Get wisdom, discipline, and understanding.
 24. The father of the doing what's right has major joy. Whoever fathers a smart child delights in him.
 25. Let your father and your mother be glad! Let her who bore ya be hyped!
 26. My son, hook it up me your heart; and let your eyes keep in my ways.
 27. For a prostitute is a deep pit; and a wayward wife is a narrow well.
 28. Yes, she lies in wait like a robber, and increases the unfaithful among men.
 29. Who has woe? Who has feeling down? Who has strife? Who has complaints? Who has needless bruises? Who has bloodshot eyes?
 30. Those who stay long at the wine; those who slide to seek out mixed wine.
 31. Don’t look at the wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup, when it goes down smoothly.
 32. In the end, it bites like a snake, and poisons like a viper.
 33. Your eyes will check it out strange things, and your mind will imagine confusing things.
 34. Yes, ya will be as he who lies down in the midst of the sea, or as he who lies on top of the rigging:
 35. “They hit me, and I was not hurt! They beat me, and I don’t feel it! When will I wake up? I can do it again. I can find another.”
