# 2 Chronicles Chapter 23

  1. In the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himself, and took the captains of hundreds, Azariah the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael the son of Jehohanan, and Azariah the son of Obed, and Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, into God's promise with him.
  2. They went about in Judah, and gathered the Levites out of all the cities of Judah, and the heads of fathers’ households of Israel, and they came to Jerusalem.
  3. All the assembly made a God's promise with the ruler in the house of God. He said to them, “check this out,, the ruler’s son shall reign, as Yahweh has spoken concerning the sons of David.
  4. This is the thing that ya shall do. A third part of ya, who come through in on the Sabbath, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be porters of the thresholds.
  5. A third part shall be at the ruler’s house; and a third part at the gate of the foundation. All the people shall be in the courts of Yahweh’s house.
  6. But let no one come through into the house of Yahweh, except the priests, and those who minister of the Levites. They shall come through in, for they are set apart, but all the people shall roll with Yahweh’s instructions.
  7. The Levites shall surround the ruler, every man with his weapons in his hand. Whoever comes into the house, let him be slain. Be with the ruler when he comes in, and when he goes out.”
  8. So the Levites and all Judah did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded: and they took every man his men, those who were to come through in on the Sabbath; with those who were to slide out on the Sabbath; for Jehoiada the priest didn’t dismiss the shift.
  9. Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains of hundreds the spears, and bucklers, and shields, that had been ruler David’s, which were in the house of God.
 10. He set all the people, every man with his weapon in his hand, from the right side of the house to the left side of the house, along by the prayer spot and the house, around the ruler.
 11. then they brought out the ruler’s son, and put the crown on him, and gave him the testimony, and made him ruler: and Jehoiada and his sons anointed him; and they said, “Long live the ruler!”
 12. When Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the ruler, she came to the people into the house of Yahweh:
 13. and she looked, and, check this out,, the ruler stood by his pillar at the entrance, and the captains and the trumpets by the ruler; and all the people of the land rejoiced, and blew trumpets; the singers also played musical instruments, and led the singing of praise. then Athaliah tore her clothes, and said, “Treason! treason!”
 14. Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds who were set over the army, and said to them, “Bring her out between the ranks; and whoever follows her, let him be slain with the sword.” For the priest said, “Don’t kill her in the Yahweh’s house.”
 15. So they made way for her. She went to the entrance of the horse gate to the ruler’s house; and they killed her there.
 16. Jehoiada made a God's promise between himself, and all the people, and the ruler, that they should be Yahweh’s people.
 17. All the people went to the house of Baal, and broke it down, and broke his altars and his images in pieces, and killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars.
 18. Jehoiada appointed the officers of the house of Yahweh under the hand of the priests the Levites, whom David had distributed in the house of Yahweh, to offer the burnt offerings of Yahweh, as it is written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, according to the order of David.
 19. He set the porters at the gates of the house of Yahweh, that no one who was unclean in anything should enter in.
 20. He took the captains of hundreds, and the nobles, and the governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and brought down the ruler from the house of Yahweh: and they came through the upper gate to the ruler’s house, and set the ruler on the throne of the God's squad.
 21. So all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet. Athaliah they had slain with the sword.
