# 2 Chronicles Chapter 2

  1. now Solomon purposed to put together a house for the name of Yahweh, and a house for his God's squad.
  2. Solomon counted out seventy thousand men to bear burdens, and eighty thousand men who were stone cutters in the mountains, and three thousand and six hundred to oversee them.
  3. Solomon sent to Huram the ruler of Tyre, saying, “As ya dealt with David my father, and sent him cedars to put together him a house in which to dwell, so deal with me.
  4. check this out,, I am about to put together a house for the name of Yahweh my God, to dedicate it to him, and to burn before him incense of sweet spices, and for the continual show bread, and for the burnt offerings morning and evening, on the Sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the set feasts of Yahweh our God. This is an ordinance forever to Israel.
  5. “The house which I put together is major; for our God is major above all gods.
  6. But who is able to put together him a house, since heaven and the heaven of heavens can’t contain him? who am I then, that I should put together him a house, except just to burn incense before him?
  7. “now so basically send me a man skillful to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in iron, and in purple, and crimson, and blue, and who knows how to engrave engravings, to be with the skillful men who are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem, whom David my father provided.
  8. “Send me also cedar trees, fir trees, and algum trees, out of Lebanon; for I get it that your servants get it how to cut timber in Lebanon: and check this out,, my servants shall be with your servants,
  9. even to prepare me timber in abundance; for the house which I am about to put together shall be major and wonderful.
 10. check this out,, I will hook it up to your servants, the cutters who cut timber, twenty thousand measures of beaten wheat, and twenty thousand measures of barley, and twenty thousand baths of wine, and twenty thousand baths of oil.”
 11. then Huram the ruler of Tyre answered in writing, which he sent to Solomon, “cuz Yahweh loves his people, he has made ya ruler over them.”
 12. Huram continued, “blessed up be Yahweh, the God of Israel, that made heaven and earth, who has given to David the ruler a smart son, endowed with discretion and understanding, that should put together a house for Yahweh, and a house for his God's squad.
 13. now I have sent a skillful man, endowed with understanding, of Huram my father’s,
 14. the son of a woman of the daughters of Dan; and his father was a man of Tyre, skillful to work in gold, and in silver, in brass, in iron, in stone, and in timber, in purple, in blue, and in fine linen, and in crimson, also to engrave any kind of engraving, and to devise any device; that there may be a place appointed to him with your skillful men, and with the skillful men of my boss David your father.
 15. “now so basically the wheat and the barley, the oil and the wine, which my boss has spoken of, let him send to his servants:
 16. and we will cut wood out of Lebanon, as much as ya shall need; and we will bring it to ya in floats by sea to Joppa; and ya shall carry it up to Jerusalem.”
 17. Solomon numbered all the foreigners who were in the land of Israel, after the numbering with which David his father had numbered them; and they were found one hundred fifty-three thousand six hundred.
 18. He set seventy thousand of them to bear burdens, and eighty thousand who were stone cutters in the mountains, and three thousand six hundred overseers to set the people at work.
