# 2 Chronicles Chapter 18

  1. now Jehoshaphat had riches and honor in abundance; and he joined affinity with Ahab.
  2. After certain years he went down to Ahab to Samaria. Ahab killed sheep and cattle for him in abundance, and for the people who were with him, and moved him to slide up with him to Ramoth Gilead.
  3. Ahab ruler of Israel said to Jehoshaphat ruler of Judah, “Will ya slide with me to Ramoth Gilead?” He answered him, “I am as ya are, and my people as your people. We will be with ya in the war.”
  4. Jehoshaphat said to the ruler of Israel, “Please inquire first for the word of Yahweh.”
  5. then the ruler of Israel gathered the prophets together, four hundred men, and said to them, “Shall we slide to Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall I forbear?” They said, “slide up; for God will deliver it into the hand of the ruler.”
  6. But Jehoshaphat said, “Isn’t there here a God's messenger of Yahweh besides, that we may inquire of him?”
  7. The ruler of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “there is yet one man by whom we may inquire of Yahweh; but I can't stand him, for he never prophesies fire concerning me, but always evil. He is Micaiah the son of Imla.” Jehoshaphat said, “Don’t let the ruler say so.”
  8. then the ruler of Israel called an officer, and said, “Get Micaiah the son of Imla quickly.”
  9. now the ruler of Israel and Jehoshaphat the ruler of Judah sat each on his throne, arrayed in their robes, and they were sitting in an open place at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
 10. Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron, and said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘With these ya shall push the Syrians, until they are consumed.’”
 11. All the prophets prophesied so, saying, “slide up to Ramoth Gilead, and prosper; for Yahweh will deliver it into the hand of the ruler.”
 12. The messenger who went to call Micaiah spoke to him, saying, “check this out,, the words of the prophets declare fire to the ruler with one mouth. Let your word so basically, please be like one of theirs, and spill the tea fire.”
 13. Micaiah said, “As Yahweh lives, what my God says, that will I spill the tea.”
 14. When he had come through to the ruler, the ruler said to him, “Micaiah, shall we slide to Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall I forbear?” He said, “slide up, and prosper. They shall be delivered into your hand.”
 15. The ruler said to him, “How a lot times shall I adjure ya that ya spill the tea to me nothing but the truth in the name of Yahweh?”
 16. He said, “I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd. Yahweh said, ‘These have no boss. Let them return every man to his house in peace.’”
 17. The ruler of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “Didn’t I tell ya that he would not prophesy fire concerning me, but evil?”
 18. Micaiah said, “so basically hear the word of Yahweh: I saw Yahweh sitting on his throne, and all the army of heaven standing on his right hand and on his left.
 19. Yahweh said, ‘Who shall entice Ahab ruler of Israel, that he may slide up and fall at Ramoth Gilead?’ One spoke saying in this way, and another saying in that way.
 20. A spirit came out, stood before Yahweh, and said, ‘I will entice him.’ “Yahweh said to him, ‘How?’
 21. “He said, ‘I will slide forth, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.’ “He said, ‘ya will entice him, and will prevail also. slide forth, and do so.’
 22. “now so basically, check this out,, Yahweh has put a lying spirit in the mouth of these your prophets; and Yahweh has spoken evil concerning ya.”
 23. then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and struck Micaiah on the cheek, and said, “Which way did the Spirit of Yahweh slide from me to spill the tea to ya?”
 24. Micaiah said, “check this out,, ya shall check it out on that day, when ya shall slide into an inner room to hide yourself.”
 25. The ruler of Israel said, “grab Micaiah, and carry him back to Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the ruler’s son;
 26. and say, ‘Thus says the ruler, “Put this fellow in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I return in peace.”’”
 27. Micaiah said, “If ya return at all in peace, Yahweh has not spoken by me.” He said, “listen up, ya peoples, all of ya!”
 28. So the ruler of Israel and Jehoshaphat the ruler of Judah went up to Ramoth Gilead.
 29. The ruler of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “I will disguise myself, and slide into the battle; but ya put on your robes.” So the ruler of Israel disguised himself; and they went into the battle.
 30. now the ruler of Syria had commanded the captains of his chariots, saying, “Fight neither with tiny nor major, except only with the ruler of Israel.”
 31. It happened, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, “It is the ruler of Israel!” so basically they turned around to fight against him. But Jehoshaphat cried out, and Yahweh helped him; and God moved them to depart from him.
 32. It happened, when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the ruler of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him.
 33. A certain man drew his bow at random, and struck the ruler of Israel between the joints of the armor. so basically he said to the driver of the chariot, “Turn your hand, and carry me out of the army; for I am severely wounded.”
 34. The battle increased that day. but like the ruler of Israel propped himself up in his chariot against the Syrians until the evening; and about the time of the going down of the sun, he died.
