# 2 Chronicles Chapter 6

    1. then Solomon said, “Yahweh has said that he would dwell in the thick darkness.
    2. But I have built ya a house of habitation, and a place for ya to dwell in forever.”
    3. The ruler turned his face, and blessed up up all the assembly of Israel: and all the assembly of Israel stood.
    4. He said, “blessed up up be Yahweh, the God of Israel, who spoke with his mouth to David my father, and has with his hands fulfilled it, saying,
    5. ‘Since the day that I brought forth my people out of the land of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel to put together a house in, that my name might be there; neither chose I any man to be prince over my people Israel:
    6. but I have chosen Jerusalem, that my name might be there; and have chosen David to be over my people Israel.’
    7. now it was in the heart of David my father to put together a house for the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel.
    8. But Yahweh said to David my father, ‘Whereas it was in your heart to put together a house for my name, ya did well that it was in your heart:
    9. nevertheless ya won't put together the house; but your son who shall come through through forth out of your body, he shall put together the house for my name.’
  10. “Yahweh has performed his word that he spoke; for I have risen up in the place of David my father, and sit on the throne of Israel, as Yahweh promised, and have built the house for the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel.
  11. there I have set the ark, in which is the God's promise of Yahweh, which he made with the children of Israel.”
  12. He stood before the talking to God spot of Yahweh in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands
  13. (for Solomon had made a bronze scaffold, five cubits long, and five cubits broad, and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of the court; and on it he stood, and kneeled down on his knees before all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward heaven;)
  14. and he said, “Yahweh, the God of Israel, there is no God like ya, in heaven, or on earth; ya who keep God's promise and loving kindness with your servants, who walk before ya with all their heart;
  15. who have kept with your helper David my father that which ya promised him: yes, ya spoke with your mouth, and have fulfilled it with your hand, as it is this day.
  16. “now so basically, Yahweh, the God of Israel, keep with your helper David my father that which ya have promised him, saying, ‘there won't fail ya a man in my sight to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your children grab heed to their way, to walk in my law as ya have walked before me.’
  17. now so basically, Yahweh, the God of Israel, let your word be verified, which ya spoke to your helper David.
  18. “But will God facts dwell with men on the earth? check this out, heaven and the heaven of heavens can’t contain ya; how much less this house which I have built!
  19. Yet have respect for the talking to God of your helper, and to his supplication, Yahweh my God, to listen up up to the cry and to the talking to God which your helper prays before ya;
  20. that your eyes may be open toward this house day and night, even toward the place where ya have said that ya would put your name; to listen up up to the talking to God which your helper shall pray toward this place.
  21. listen up up to the petitions of your helper, and of your people Israel, when they shall pray toward this place: yes, hear from your dwelling place, even from heaven; and when ya hear, forgive.
  22. “If a man messing up against his neighbor, and an oath is laid on him to cause him to swear, and he comes and swears before your talking to God spot in this house;
  23. then hear from heaven, and do, and judge your servants, bringing retribution to the wicked, to bring his way on his own head; and justifying the doing what's right, to hook it up him according to his righteousness.
  24. “If your people Israel be struck down before the enemy, cuz they have sinned against ya, and shall turn again and confess your name, and pray and create supplication before ya in this house;
  25. then hear from heaven, and forgive the messing up of your people Israel, and bring them again to the land which ya gave to them and to their fathers.
  26. “When the sky is shut up, and there is no rain, cuz they have sinned against ya; if they pray toward this place, and confess your name, and turn from their messing up, when ya afflict them:
  27. then hear in heaven, and forgive the messing up of your servants, and of your people Israel, when ya drop knowledge them the fire way in which they should walk; and send rain on your land, which ya have given to your people for an inheritance.
  28. “If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, if there is blight or mildew, locust or caterpillar; if their enemies besiege them in the land of their cities; whatever plague or whatever sickness there is;
  29. whatever talking to God and supplication be made by any man, or by all your people Israel, who shall get it every man his own plague and his own feeling down, and shall spread forth his hands toward this house:
  30. then hear from heaven, your dwelling place and forgive, and render to every man according to all his ways, whose heart ya get it; (for ya, even ya only, get it the hearts of the children of men;)
  31. that they may fear ya, to walk in your ways, so long as they live in the land which ya gave to our fathers.
  32. “Moreover concerning the foreigner, who isn't of your people Israel, when he shall come through through from a far country for your major name’s sake, and your mighty hand, and your outstretched arm; when they shall come through through and pray toward this house:
  33. then hear from heaven, even from your dwelling place, and do according to all that the foreigner calls to ya for; that all the peoples of the earth may get it your name, and fear ya, as does your people Israel, and that they may get it that this house which I have built is called by your name.
  34. “If your people slide out to battle against their enemies, by whatever way ya shall send them, and they pray to ya toward this city which ya have chosen, and the house which I have built for your name;
  35. then hear from heaven their talking to God and their supplication, and maintain their cause.
  36. “If they messing up against ya (for there is no man who doesn’t messing up), and ya are mad salty with them, and deliver them to the enemy, so that they carry them away captive to a land far off or near;
  37. yet if they shall turn it around themselves in the land where they are carried captive, and turn again, and create supplication to ya in the land of their captivity, saying, ‘We have sinned, we have done perversely, and have dealt wickedly;’
  38. if they return to ya with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their captivity, where they have carried them captive, and pray toward their land, which ya gave to their fathers, and the city which ya have chosen, and toward the house which I have built for your name:
  39. then hear from heaven, even from your dwelling place, their talking to God and their petitions, and maintain their cause, and forgive your people who have sinned against ya.
  40. “now, my God, let, I beg ya, your eyes be open, and let your ears be attentive, to the talking to God that is made in this place.
  41. “now so basically arise, Yahweh God, into your resting place, ya, and the ark of your strength: let your priests, Yahweh God, be clothed with getting saved, and let your yeeted fam be hyped in goodness.
  42. “Yahweh God, don’t turn away the face of your anointed. Remember your loving kindnesses to David your helper.”
