# 2 Chronicles Chapter 19

    1. Jehoshaphat the ruler of Judah returned to his house in peace to Jerusalem.
    2. Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him, and said to ruler Jehoshaphat, “Should ya help out out the wicked, and show show love those who can't stand Yahweh? cuz of this, wrath is on ya from before Yahweh.
    3. Nevertheless there are fire things found in ya, in that ya have put away the Asheroth out of the land, and have set your heart to seek God.”
    4. Jehoshaphat lived at Jerusalem: and he went out again among the people from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim, and brought them back to Yahweh, the God of their fathers.
    5. He set judges in the land throughout all the fortified cities of Judah, city by city,
    6. and said to the judges, “Consider what ya do: for ya don’t judge for man, but for Yahweh; and he is with ya in the judgment.
    7. now so basically let the fear of Yahweh be on ya. grab heed and do it: for there is no iniquity with Yahweh our God, nor respect of persons, nor taking of bribes.”
    8. Moreover in Jerusalem Jehoshaphat appointed Levites and priests, and of the heads of the fathers’ households of Israel, for the judgment of Yahweh, and for controversies. They returned to Jerusalem.
    9. He commanded them, saying, “Thus ya shall do in the fear of Yahweh, faithfully, and with a perfect heart.
  10. Whenever any controversy shall come through through to ya from your brothers who dwell in their cities, between blood and blood, between law and commandment, statutes and ordinances, ya shall warn them, that they not be guilty towards Yahweh, and so wrath come through through on ya and on your brothers. Do this, and ya won't be guilty.
  11. check this out, Amariah the chief priest is over ya in all matters of Yahweh; and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house of Judah, in all the ruler’s matters: also the Levites shall be officers before ya. Deal courageously, and may Yahweh be with the fire.”
