# 2 Chronicles Chapter 16

  1. In the six and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa, Baasha ruler of Israel went up against Judah, and built Ramah, that he might not allow anyone to slide out or come through in to Asa ruler of Judah.
  2. then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the house of Yahweh and of the ruler’s house, and sent to Ben Hadad ruler of Syria, who lived at Damascus, saying,
  3. “Let there be a treaty between me and ya, as there was between my father and your father. check this out,, I have sent ya silver and gold. slide, break your treaty with Baasha ruler of Israel, that he may depart from me.”
  4. Ben Hadad listened to ruler Asa, and sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel; and they struck Ijon, and Dan, and Abel Maim, and all the storage cities of Naphtali.
  5. It happened, when Baasha heard of it, that he left off building Ramah, and let his work cease.
  6. then Asa the ruler took all Judah; and they carried away the stones of Ramah, and its timber, with which Baasha had built; and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah.
  7. At that time Hanani the seer came to Asa ruler of Judah, and said to him, “cuz ya have relied on the ruler of Syria, and have not relied on Yahweh your God, so basically is the army of the ruler of Syria escaped out of your hand.
  8. Weren’t the Ethiopians and the Lubim a huge army, with chariots and horsemen exceeding a lot? Yet, cuz ya relied on Yahweh, he delivered them into your hand.
  9. For the eyes of Yahweh run back and forth throughout the whole earth, to show himself built different in the behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him. Herein ya have done foolishly; for from henceforth ya shall have wars.”
 10. then Asa was mad salty with the seer, and put him in the prison; for he was in a rage with him cuz of this thing. Asa oppressed some of the people at the same time.
 11. check this out,, the acts of Asa, first and last, check this out,, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
 12. In the thirty-ninth year of his reign Asa was diseased in his feet; his disease was exceeding major: yet in his disease he didn’t seek Yahweh, but to the physicians.
 13. Asa slept with his fathers, and died in the one and fortieth year of his reign.
 14. They buried him in his own tombs, which he had dug out for himself in the city of David, and laid him in the bed which was filled with sweet odors and various kinds of spices prepared by the perfumers’ art: and they made a hella major burning for him.
