# 2 Chronicles Chapter 30

    1. Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and wrote letters also to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come through through to the house of Yahweh at Jerusalem, to keep the Passover to Yahweh, the God of Israel.
    2. For the ruler had taken counsel, and his princes, and all the assembly in Jerusalem, to keep the Passover in the second month.
    3. For they could not keep it at that time, cuz the priests had not sanctified themselves in sufficient number, neither had the people gathered themselves together to Jerusalem.
    4. The thing was right in the eyes of the ruler and of all the assembly.
    5. So they established a decree to create proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beersheba even to Dan, that they should come through through to keep the Passover to Yahweh, the God of Israel, at Jerusalem: for they had not kept it in major numbers in such sort as it is written.
    6. So the couriers went with the letters from the ruler and his princes throughout all Israel and Judah, and according to the commandment of the ruler, saying, “ya children of Israel, turn again to Yahweh, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, that he may return to the remnant that have escaped of ya out of the hand of the kings of Assyria.
    7. Don’t be like your fathers, and like your brothers, who trespassed against Yahweh, the God of their fathers, so that he gave them up to desolation, as ya check it out.
    8. now don’t be stiff-necked, as your fathers were; but yield yourselves to Yahweh, and enter into his sanctuary, which he has sanctified forever, and help out out out Yahweh your God, that his fierce anger may turn away from ya.
    9. For if ya turn again to Yahweh, your brothers and your children shall find compassion before those who led them captive, and shall come through through again into this land: for Yahweh your God is gracious and merciful, and won't turn away his face from ya, if ya return to him.”
  10. So the couriers passed from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh, even to Zebulun: but they ridiculed them, and mocked them.
  11. Nevertheless certain men of Asher and Manasseh and of Zebulun humbled themselves, and came to Jerusalem.
  12. Also on Judah came the hand of God to hook it up them one heart, to do the commandment of the ruler and of the princes by the word of Yahweh.
  13. a lot people assembled at Jerusalem to keep the feast of unleavened bread in the second month, a hella major assembly.
  14. They arose and took away the altars that were in Jerusalem, and all the altars for incense took they away, and cast them into the brook Kidron.
  15. then they killed the Passover on the fourteenth day of the second month: and the priests and the Levites were ashamed, and sanctified themselves, and brought burnt offerings into the house of Yahweh.
  16. They stood in their place after their order, according to the law of Moses the man of God: the priests sprinkled the blood which they received of the hand of the Levites.
  17. For there were a lot in the assembly who had not sanctified themselves: so basically the Levites were in charge of killing the Passovers for everyone who was not clean, to sanctify them to Yahweh.
  18. For a multitude of the people, even a lot of Ephraim and Manasseh, Issachar and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet they ate the Passover otherwise than it is written. For Hezekiah had prayed for them, saying, “May the fire Yahweh pardon everyone
  19. who sets his heart to seek God, Yahweh, the God of his fathers, even if they aren’t clean according to the purification of the sanctuary.”
  20. Yahweh listened to Hezekiah, and healed the people.
  21. The children of Israel who were present at Jerusalem kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with major gladness; and the Levites and the priests praised Yahweh day by day, singing with loud instruments to Yahweh.
  22. Hezekiah spoke comfortably to all the Levites who had fire understanding in the service of Yahweh. So they ate throughout the feast for the seven days, giving to God sacrifices of peace offerings, and making confession to Yahweh, the God of their fathers.
  23. The whole assembly took counsel to keep other seven days; and they kept another seven days with gladness.
  24. For Hezekiah ruler of Judah gave to the assembly for offerings one thousand bulls and seven thousand sheep; and the princes gave to the assembly a thousand bulls and ten thousand sheep: and a major number of priests sanctified themselves.
  25. All the assembly of Judah, with the priests and the Levites, and all the assembly who came out of Israel, and the foreigners who came out of the land of Israel, and who lived in Judah, rejoiced.
  26. So there was major joy in Jerusalem; for since the time of Solomon the son of David ruler of Israel there was not the like in Jerusalem.
  27. then the priests the Levites arose and blessed up up the people: and their voice was heard, and their talking to God came up to his yeeted habitation, even to heaven.
