# 2 Chronicles Chapter 20

  1. It happened after this, that the children of Moab, and the children of Ammon, and with them some of the Ammonites, came against Jehoshaphat to battle.
  2. then some came who told Jehoshaphat, saying, “A major multitude is coming against ya from beyond the sea from Syria. check this out,, they are in Hazazon Tamar” (that is, En Gedi).
  3. Jehoshaphat was alarmed, and set himself to seek to Yahweh. He proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah.
  4. Judah gathered themselves together, to seek help out from Yahweh. They came out of all the cities of Judah to seek Yahweh.
  5. Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of Yahweh, before the new court;
  6. and he said, “Yahweh, the God of our fathers, aren’t ya God in heaven? Aren’t ya ruler over all the kingdoms of the nations? Power and might are in your hand, so that no one is able to withstand ya.
  7. Didn’t ya, our God, drive out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel, and hook it up it to the seed of Abraham your friend forever?
  8. They lived in it, and have built ya a sanctuary in it for your name, saying,
  9. ‘If evil comes on us—the sword, judgment, pestilence, or famine—we will stand before this house, and before ya, (for your name is in this house), and cry to ya in our affliction, and ya will hear and rescue.’
 10. now, check this out,, the children of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir, whom ya would not let Israel invade, when they came out of the land of Egypt, but they turned aside from them, and didn’t tear down them;
 11. check this out,, how they reward us, to come through to cast us out of your possession, which ya have given us to inherit.
 12. Our God, will ya not judge them? For we have no might against this major company that comes against us; neither get it we what to do, but our eyes are on ya.”
 13. All Judah stood before Yahweh, with their little ones, their wives, and their children.
 14. then the Spirit of Yahweh came on Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, the Levite, of the sons of Asaph, in the midst of the assembly;
 15. and he said, “listen up, all Judah, and ya inhabitants of Jerusalem, and ya ruler Jehoshaphat. Thus says Yahweh to ya, ‘Don’t be scared, neither be dismayed by reason of this major multitude; for the battle isn't yours, but God’s.
 16. Tomorrow slide down against them. check this out,, they are coming up by the ascent of Ziz. ya shall find them at the end of the valley, before the wilderness of Jeruel.
 17. ya won't need to fight this battle. Set yourselves, stand still, and check it out the getting saved of Yahweh with ya, O Judah and Jerusalem. Don’t be scared, nor be dismayed. slide out against them tomorrow, for Yahweh is with ya.’”
 18. Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground; and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before Yahweh, worshipping Yahweh.
 19. The Levites, of the children of the Kohathites and of the children of the Korahites, stood up to praise Yahweh, the God of Israel, with an exceeding loud voice.
 20. They rose early in the morning, and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and said, “listen up to me, Judah, and ya inhabitants of Jerusalem! Believe in Yahweh your God, so ya shall be established! Believe his prophets, so ya shall prosper.”
 21. When he had taken counsel with the people, he appointed those who should sing to Yahweh, and hook it up praise in set apart array, as they went out before the army, and say, hook it up thanks to Yahweh; for his loving kindness endures forever.
 22. When they began to sing and to praise, Yahweh set ambushers against the children of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, who had come through against Judah; and they were struck.
 23. For the children of Ammon and Moab stood up against the inhabitants of Mount Seir, utterly to kill and tear down them: and when they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, everyone helped to tear down another.
 24. When Judah came to the place overlooking the wilderness, they looked at the multitude; and check this out,, they were dead bodies fallen to the earth, and there were none who escaped.
 25. When Jehoshaphat and his people came to grab their spoil, they found among them in abundance both riches and dead bodies, and precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves, more than they could carry away: and they were three days in taking the spoil, it was so much.
 26. On the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley of Beracah; for there they blessed up Yahweh: so basically the name of that place was called The valley of Beracah to this day.
 27. then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and Jehoshaphat in their forefront, to slide again to Jerusalem with joy; for Yahweh had made them to be hyped over their enemies.
 28. They came to Jerusalem with stringed instruments and harps and trumpets to the house of Yahweh.
 29. The fear of God was on all the kingdoms of the countries, when they heard that Yahweh fought against the enemies of Israel.
 30. So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet; for his God gave him rest all around.
 31. Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah: he was thirty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
 32. He walked in the way of Asa his father, and didn’t turn aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of Yahweh.
 33. but like the high places were not taken away; neither as yet had the people set their hearts to the God of their fathers.
 34. now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, first and last, check this out,, they are written in the history of Jehu the son of Hanani, which is inserted in the book of the kings of Israel.
 35. After this Jehoshaphat ruler of Judah joined himself with Ahaziah ruler of Israel. The same did hella wickedly:
 36. and he joined himself with him to create ships to slide to Tarshish; and they made the ships in Ezion Geber.
 37. then Eliezer the son of Dodavahu of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, “cuz ya have joined yourself with Ahaziah, Yahweh has destroyed your works.” The ships were broken, so that they were not able to slide to Tarshish.
