# Deuteronomy Chapter 8

  1. ya shall observe to do all the commandment which I command ya this day, that ya may live, and multiply, and slide in and possess the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers.
  2. ya shall remember all the way which Yahweh your God has led ya these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble ya, to prove ya, to get it what was in your heart, whether ya would keep his commandments, or not.
  3. He humbled ya, and allowed ya to be hungry, and fed ya with manna, which ya didn’t get it, neither did your fathers get it; that he might create ya get it that man does not live by bread only, but man lives by everything that proceeds out of the mouth of Yahweh.
  4. Your clothing didn’t grow old on ya, neither did your foot swell, these forty years.
  5. ya shall consider in your heart that as a man chastens his son, so Yahweh your God chastens ya.
  6. ya shall keep the commandments of Yahweh your God, to walk in his ways, and to fear him.
  7. For Yahweh your God brings ya into a fire land, a land of brooks of water, of springs, and underground water flowing into valleys and hills;
  8. a land of wheat and barley, and vines and fig trees and pomegranates; a land of olive trees and honey;
  9. a land in which ya shall eat bread without scarceness, ya won't lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills ya may dig copper.
 10. ya shall eat and be full, and ya shall bless Yahweh your God for the fire land which he has given ya.
 11. Beware lest ya forget Yahweh your God, in not keeping his commandments, and his ordinances, and his statutes, which I command ya this day:
 12. lest, when ya have eaten and are full, and have built goodly houses, and lived therein;
 13. and when your herds and your flocks multiply, and your silver and your gold is multiplied, and all that ya have is multiplied;
 14. then your heart be lifted up, and ya forget Yahweh your God, who brought ya forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage;
 15. who led ya through the major and terrible wilderness, with fiery serpents and scorpions, and thirsty ground where there was no water; who brought ya forth water out of the rock of flint;
 16. who fed ya in the wilderness with manna, which your fathers didn’t get it; that he might humble ya, and that he might prove ya, to do ya fire at your latter end:
 17. and lest ya say in your heart, “My power and the might of my hand has gotten me this wealth.”
 18. But ya shall remember Yahweh your God, for it is he who gives ya power to get wealth; that he may establish his God's promise which he swore to your fathers, as at this day.
 19. It shall be, if ya shall forget Yahweh your God, and walk after other gods, and help out out them, and giving props them, I testify against ya this day that ya shall surely perish.
 20. As the nations that Yahweh makes to perish before ya, so ya shall perish; cuz ya wouldn’t listen up to the voice of Yahweh your God.
