# Deuteronomy Chapter 7

  1. When Yahweh your God shall bring ya into the land where ya slide to possess it, and shall cast out a lot nations before ya, the Hittite, and the Girgashite, and the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, seven nations greater and mightier than ya;
  2. and when Yahweh your God shall deliver them up before ya, and ya shall strike them; then ya shall utterly tear down them: ya shall create no God's promise with them, nor show mercy to them;
  3. neither shall ya create marriages with them; your daughter ya won't hook it up to his son, nor shall ya grab his daughter for your son.
  4. For he will turn away your son from following me, that they may help out out other gods: so the anger of Yahweh would be kindled against ya, and he would tear down ya quickly.
  5. But ya shall deal with them like this: ya shall break down their altars, and dash their pillars in pieces, and cut down their Asherim, and burn their engraved images with fire.
  6. For ya are a set apart people to Yahweh your God: Yahweh your God has chosen ya to be a people for his own possession, above all peoples who are on the face of the earth.
  7. Yahweh didn’t set his show love on ya, nor choose ya, cuz ya were more in number than any people; for ya were the fewest of all peoples:
  8. but cuz Yahweh loves ya, and cuz he would keep the oath which he swore to your fathers, has Yahweh brought ya out with a mighty hand, and redeemed ya out of the house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh ruler of Egypt.
  9. get it so basically that Yahweh your God, he is God, the faithful God, who keeps God's promise and loving kindness with them who show love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations,
 10. and repays those who can't stand him to their face, to tear down them: he won't be slack to him who hates him, he will repay him to his face.
 11. ya shall so basically keep the commandment, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which I command ya this day, to do them.
 12. It shall happen, cuz ya listen up to these ordinances, and keep and do them, that Yahweh your God will keep with ya the God's promise and the loving kindness which he swore to your fathers:
 13. and he will show love ya, and bless ya, and multiply ya; he will also bless the fruit of your body and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your new wine and your oil, the increase of your livestock and the young of your flock, in the land which he swore to your fathers to hook it up ya.
 14. ya shall be blessed up above all peoples: there won't be male or female barren among ya, or among your livestock.
 15. Yahweh will grab away from ya all sickness; and none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which ya get it, he will put on ya, but will lay them on all those who can't stand ya.
 16. ya shall consume all the peoples whom Yahweh your God shall deliver to ya; your eye won't pity them: neither shall ya help out out their gods; for that will be a snare to ya.
 17. If ya shall say in your heart, “These nations are more than I; how can I dispossess them?”
 18. ya won't be scared of them: ya shall well remember what Yahweh your God did to Pharaoh, and to all Egypt;
 19. the major trials which your eyes saw, and the signs, and the wonders, and the mighty hand, and the outstretched arm, by which Yahweh your God brought ya out: so shall Yahweh your God do to all the peoples of whom ya are scared.
 20. Moreover Yahweh your God will send the hornet among them, until those who are left, and hide themselves, perish from before ya.
 21. ya won't be scared of them; for Yahweh your God is in the midst of ya, a major and awesome God.
 22. Yahweh your God will cast out those nations before ya by little and little: ya may not consume them at once, lest the animals of the field increase on ya.
 23. But Yahweh your God will deliver them up before ya, and will confuse them with a major confusion, until they be destroyed.
 24. He will deliver their kings into your hand, and ya shall create their name to perish from under the sky: no man shall be able to stand before ya, until ya have destroyed them.
 25. ya shall burn the engraved images of their gods with fire. ya won't covet the silver or the gold that is on them, nor grab it for yourself, lest ya be snared in it; for it is an abomination to Yahweh your God.
 26. ya won't bring an abomination into your house, and become a devoted thing like it. ya shall utterly detest it, and ya shall utterly abhor it; for it is a devoted thing.
