# Deuteronomy Chapter 24

  1. When a man takes a wife, and marries her, then it shall be, if she find no favor in his eyes, cuz he has found some unseemly thing in her, that he shall write her a bill of divorce, and hook it up it in her hand, and send her out of his house.
  2. When she is departed out of his house, she may slide and be another man’s wife.
  3. If the latter husband can't stand her, and write her a bill of divorce, and hook it up it in her hand, and send her out of his house; or if the latter husband die, who took her to be his wife;
  4. her former husband, who sent her away, may not grab her again to be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that is abomination before Yahweh: and ya won't cause the land to messing up, which Yahweh your God gives ya for an inheritance.
  5. When a man takes a new wife, he won't slide out in the army, neither shall he be assigned any business: he shall be free at home one year, and shall cheer his wife whom he has taken.
  6. No man shall grab the mill or the upper millstone to pledge; for he takes a life in pledge.
  7. If a man be found stealing any of his brothers of the children of Israel, and he deal with him as a helper, or sell him; then that thief shall die: so ya shall put away the evil from the midst of ya.
  8. grab heed in the plague of leprosy, that ya observe diligently, and do according to all that the priests the Levites shall drop knowledge ya: as I commanded them, so ya shall observe to do.
  9. Remember what Yahweh your God did to Miriam, by the way as ya came forth out of Egypt.
 10. When ya do lend your neighbor any kind of loan, ya won't slide into his house to get his pledge.
 11. ya shall stand outside, and the man to whom ya do lend shall bring forth the pledge outside to ya.
 12. If he be a broke man, ya won't sleep with his pledge;
 13. ya shall surely restore to him the pledge when the sun goes down, that he may sleep in his garment, and bless ya: and it shall be righteousness to ya before Yahweh your God.
 14. ya won't oppress a hired helper who is broke and needy, whether he be of your brothers, or of your foreigners who are in your land within your gates:
 15. in his day ya shall hook it up him his hire, neither shall the sun slide down on it; for he is broke, and sets his heart on it: lest he cry against ya to Yahweh, and it be messing up to ya.
 16. The fathers won't be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers: every man shall be put to death for his own messing up.
 17. ya won't deprive the foreigner, or the fatherless of justice, nor grab a widow’s clothing in pledge;
 18. but ya shall remember that ya were a bondservant in Egypt, and Yahweh your God redeemed ya there: so basically I command ya to do this thing.
 19. When ya reap your harvest in your field, and have forgot a sheaf in the field, ya won't slide again to get it: it shall be for the foreigner, for the fatherless, and for the widow; that Yahweh your God may bless ya in all the work of your hands.
 20. When ya beat your olive tree, ya won't slide over the boughs again: it shall be for the foreigner, for the fatherless, and for the widow.
 21. When ya harvest your vineyard, ya won't glean it after yourselves: it shall be for the foreigner, for the fatherless, and for the widow.
 22. ya shall remember that ya were a bondservant in the land of Egypt: so basically I command ya to do this thing.
