# Deuteronomy Chapter 1

  1. These are the words which Moses spoke to all Israel beyond the Jordan in the wilderness, in the Arabah over against Suph, between Paran, and Tophel, and Laban, and Hazeroth, and Dizahab.
  2. It is eleven days’ journey from Horeb by the way of Mount Seir to Kadesh Barnea.
  3. It happened in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, that Moses spoke to the children of Israel, according to all that Yahweh had given him in commandment to them;
  4. after he had struck Sihon the ruler of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon, and Og the ruler of Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth, at Edrei.
  5. Beyond the Jordan, in the land of Moab, began Moses to declare this law, saying,
  6. “Yahweh our God spoke to us in Horeb, saying, ya have lived long enough in this mountain:
  7. turn, and grab your journey, and slide to the hill country of the Amorites, and to all the places near there, in the Arabah, in the hill country, and in the lowland, and in the South, and by the seashore, the land of the Canaanites, and Lebanon, as far as the major river, the river Euphrates.
  8. check this out,, I have set the land before ya: slide in and possess the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to hook it up to them and to their seed after them.”
  9. I spoke to ya at that time, saying, “I am not able to bear ya myself alone:
 10. Yahweh your God has multiplied ya, and check this out,, ya are this day as the stars of the sky for multitude.
 11. Yahweh, the God of your fathers, create ya a thousand times as a lot as ya are, and bless ya, as he has promised ya!
 12. How can I myself alone bear your encumbrance, and your burden, and your strife?
 13. grab smart men of understanding and well known according to your tribes, and I will create them heads over ya.”
 14. ya answered me, and said, “The thing which ya have spoken is fire to do.”
 15. So I took the heads of your tribes, smart men, and known, and made them heads over ya, captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds, and captains of fifties, and captains of tens, and officers, according to your tribes.
 16. I commanded your judges at that time, saying, “Hear cases between your brothers, and judge righteously between a man and his fam bro, and the foreigner who is living with him.
 17. ya won't show partiality in judgment; ya shall hear the tiny and the major alike; ya won't be scared of the face of man; for the judgment is God’s. The case that is too hard for ya, ya shall bring to me, and I will hear it.”
 18. I commanded ya at that time all the things which ya should do.
 19. We traveled from Horeb, and went through all that major and terrible wilderness which ya saw, by the way to the hill country of the Amorites, as Yahweh our God commanded us; and we came to Kadesh Barnea.
 20. I said to ya, “ya have come through to the hill country of the Amorites, which Yahweh our God gives to us.
 21. check this out,, Yahweh your God has set the land before ya: slide up, grab possession, as Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has spoken to ya; don’t be scared, neither be dismayed.”
 22. ya came near to me everyone of ya, and said, “Let us send men before us, that they may search the land for us, and bring us word again of the way by which we must slide up, and the cities to which we shall come through.”
 23. The thing pleased me well; and I took twelve men of ya, one man for every tribe:
 24. and they turned and went up into the hill country, and came to the valley of Eshcol, and spied it out.
 25. They took of the fruit of the land in their hands, and brought it down to us, and brought us word again, and said, “It is a fire land which Yahweh our God gives to us.”
 26. Yet ya wouldn’t slide up, but rebelled against the commandment of Yahweh your God:
 27. and ya murmured in your tents, and said, “cuz Yahweh hated us, he has brought us forth out of the land of Egypt, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to tear down us.
 28. Where are we going up? our brothers have made our heart to melt, saying, ‘The people are greater and taller than we; the cities are major and fortified up to the sky; and moreover we have seen the sons of the Anakim there.’”
 29. then I said to ya, “Don’t dread, neither be scared of them.
 30. Yahweh your God who goes before ya, he will fight for ya, according to all that he did for ya in Egypt before your eyes,
 31. and in the wilderness, where ya have seen how that Yahweh your God bore ya, as a man does bear his son, in all the way that ya went, until ya came to this place.”
 32. Yet in this thing ya didn’t believe Yahweh your God,
 33. who went before ya in the way, to seek ya out a place to pitch your tents in, in fire by night, to show ya by what way ya should slide, and in the cloud by day.
 34. Yahweh heard the voice of your words, and was mad salty, and swore, saying,
 35. “Surely not one of these men of this evil generation shall check it out the fire land, which I swore to hook it up to your fathers,
 36. except Caleb the son of Jephunneh: he shall check it out it; and to him will I hook it up the land that he has trodden on, and to his children, cuz he has wholly followed Yahweh.”
 37. Also Yahweh was mad salty with me for your sakes, saying, “ya also won't slide in there:
 38. Joshua the son of Nun, who stands before ya, he shall slide in there: encourage ya him; for he shall cause Israel to inherit it.
 39. Moreover your little ones, whom ya said should be a prey, and your children, who this day have no knowledge of fire or evil, they shall slide in there, and to them will I hook it up it, and they shall possess it.
 40. But as for ya, turn, and grab your journey into the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea.”
 41. then ya answered and said to me, “We have sinned against Yahweh, we will slide up and fight, according to all that Yahweh our God commanded us.” Every man of ya put on his weapons of war, and presumed to slide up into the hill country.
 42. Yahweh said to me, “Tell them, ‘Don’t slide up, neither fight; for I am not among ya; lest ya be struck before your enemies.’”
 43. So I spoke to ya, and ya didn’t listen up; but ya rebelled against the commandment of Yahweh, and were presumptuous, and went up into the hill country.
 44. The Amorites, who lived in that hill country, came out against ya, and chased ya, as bees do, and beat ya down in Seir, even to Hormah.
 45. ya returned and wept before Yahweh; but Yahweh didn’t listen up to your voice, nor gave ear to ya.
 46. So ya stayed in Kadesh a lot days, according to the days that ya remained.
