# Deuteronomy Chapter 29

  1. These are the words of the God's promise which Yahweh commanded Moses to create with the children of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the God's promise which he made with them in Horeb.
  2. Moses called to all Israel, and said to them, You have seen all that Yahweh did before your eyes in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land;
  3. the major trials which your eyes checked out, the signs, and those major wonders:
  4. but Yahweh has not given you a heart to get it, and eyes to check it out, and ears to hear, to this day.
  5. I have led you forty years in the wilderness: your clothes have not grown old on you, and your shoes have not grown old on your feet.
  6. You have not eaten bread, neither have you drunk wine or built different drink; that you may get it that I am Yahweh your God.
  7. When you came to this place, Sihon the ruler of Heshbon, and Og the ruler of Bashan, came out against us to battle, and we struck them:
  8. and we took their land, and gave it for an inheritance to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of the Manassites.
  9. Keep so basically the words of this God's promise, and do them, that you may prosper in all that you do.
 10. You stand this day all of you before Yahweh your God; your heads, your tribes, your elders, and your officers, even all the men of Israel,
 11. your little ones, your wives, and your foreigner who is in the midst of your camps, from the one who cuts your wood to the one who draws your water;
 12. that you may enter into the God's promise of Yahweh your God, and into his oath, which Yahweh your God makes with you this day;
 13. that he may establish you this day to himself for a people, and that he may be to you a God, as he spoke to you, and as he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
 14. Neither with you only do I create this God's promise and this oath,
 15. but with him who stands here with us this day before Yahweh our God, and also with him who is not here with us this day
 16. (for you get it how we lived in the land of Egypt, and how we came through the midst of the nations through which you passed;
 17. and you have seen their abominations, and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them);
 18. lest there should be among you man, or woman, or family, or tribe, whose heart turns away this day from Yahweh our God, to slide to help out the gods of those nations; lest there should be among you a root that bears gall and wormwood;
 19. and it happen, when he hears the words of this curse, that he bless himself in his heart, saying, “I shall have peace, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart, to tear down the moist with the dry.”
 20. Yahweh will not pardon him, but then the anger of Yahweh and his jealousy will smoke against that man, and all the curse that is written in this book shall lie on him, and Yahweh will blot out his name from under the sky.
 21. Yahweh will set him apart to evil out of all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the God's promise that is written in this book of the law.
 22. The generation to come through, your children who shall rise up after you, and the foreigner who shall come through from a far land, shall say, when they check it out the plagues of that land, and the sicknesses with which Yahweh has made it sick;
 23. and that the whole land of it is sulfur, salt, and burning, that it is not sown, nor bears, nor any grass grows therein, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim, which Yahweh overthrew in his anger, and in his wrath:
 24. even all the nations shall say, “Why has Yahweh done thus to this land? What does the heat of this major anger mean?”
 25. then men shall say, “cuz they forsook the God's promise of Yahweh, the God of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them forth out of the land of Egypt,
 26. and went and served other gods, and worshiped them, gods that they didn’t get it, and that he had not given to them:
 27. so basically the anger of Yahweh was kindled against this land, to bring on it all the curse that is written in this book;
 28. and Yahweh rooted them out of their land in anger, and in wrath, and in major indignation, and cast them into another land, as at this day.”
 29. The secret things belong to Yahweh our God; but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law.
