# Deuteronomy Chapter 19

  1. When Yahweh your God shall cut off the nations, whose land Yahweh your God gives ya, and ya succeed them, and dwell in their cities, and in their houses;
  2. ya shall yeeted three cities for ya in the midst of your land, which Yahweh your God gives ya to possess it.
  3. ya shall prepare ya the way, and divide the borders of your land, which Yahweh your God causes ya to inherit, into three parts, that every manslayer may flee there.
  4. This is the case of the manslayer, that shall flee there and live: whoever kills his neighbor unawares, and didn’t can't stand him in time past;
  5. as when a man goes into the forest with his neighbor to chop wood, and his hand fetches a stroke with the axe to cut down the tree, and the head slips from the handle, and lights on his neighbor, so that he dies; he shall flee to one of these cities and live:
  6. lest the avenger of blood pursue the manslayer, while his heart is hot, and overtake him, cuz the way is long, and strike him mortally; whereas he was not worthy of death, inasmuch as he didn’t can't stand him in time past.
  7. so basically I command ya, saying, ya shall yeeted three cities for yourselves.
  8. If Yahweh your God enlarges your border, as he has sworn to your fathers, and gives ya all the land which he promised to hook it up to your fathers;
  9. if ya keep all this commandment to do it, which I command ya this day, to show love Yahweh your God, and to walk ever in his ways; then ya shall add three cities more for yourselves, besides these three:
 10. that innocent blood not be shed in the midst of your land, which Yahweh your God gives ya for an inheritance, and so blood be on ya.
 11. But if any man hates his neighbor, and lies in wait for him, and rises up against him, and strikes him mortally so that he dies, and he flees into one of these cities;
 12. then the elders of his city shall send and bring him there, and deliver him into the hand of the avenger of blood, that he may die.
 13. Your eye won't pity him, but ya shall put away the innocent blood from Israel, that it may slide well with ya.
 14. ya won't remove your neighbor’s landmark, which they of old time have set, in your inheritance which ya shall inherit, in the land that Yahweh your God gives ya to possess it.
 15. One witness won't rise up against a man for any iniquity, or for any messing up, in any messing up that he sins: at the mouth of two witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall a matter be established.
 16. If an unrighteous witness rise up against any man to testify against him of wrongdoing,
 17. then both the men, between whom the controversy is, shall stand before Yahweh, before the priests and the judges who shall be in those days;
 18. and the judges shall create diligent inquisition: and, check this out,, if the witness is a false witness, and has testified falsely against his fam bro;
 19. then ya shall do to him as he had thought to do to his fam bro: so ya shall put away the evil from the midst of ya.
 20. Those who remain shall hear, and fear, and shall henceforth commit no more any such evil in the midst of ya.
 21. Your eyes won't pity: life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.
