# Deuteronomy Chapter 23

  1. He who is wounded in the stones, or has his privy member cut off, won't enter into the assembly of Yahweh.
  2. A bastard won't enter into the assembly of Yahweh; even to the tenth generation shall none of his enter into the assembly of Yahweh.
  3. An Ammonite or a Moabite won't enter into the assembly of Yahweh; even to the tenth generation shall none belonging to them enter into the assembly of Yahweh forever:
  4. cuz they didn’t meet ya with bread and with water in the way, when ya came forth out of Egypt, and cuz they hired against ya Balaam the son of Beor from Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse ya.
  5. Nevertheless Yahweh your God wouldn’t listen up to Balaam; but Yahweh your God turned the curse into a blessing to ya, cuz Yahweh your God loved ya.
  6. ya won't seek their peace nor their prosperity all your days forever.
  7. ya won't abhor an Edomite; for he is your fam bro: ya won't abhor an Egyptian, cuz ya lived as a foreigner in his land.
  8. The children of the third generation who are born to them shall enter into the assembly of Yahweh.
  9. When ya slide forth in camp against your enemies, then ya shall keep yourselves from every evil thing.
 10. If there is among ya any man who isn't clean by reason of that which happens him by night, then shall he slide outside of the camp. He won't come through within the camp:
 11. but it shall be, when evening comes on, he shall bathe himself in water; and when the sun is down, he shall come through within the camp.
 12. ya shall have a place also outside of the camp, where ya shall slide forth abroad:
 13. and ya shall have a paddle among your weapons; and it shall be, when ya sit down abroad, ya shall dig therewith, and shall turn back and cover that which comes from ya:
 14. for Yahweh your God walks in the midst of your camp, to deliver ya, and to hook it up up your enemies before ya; so basically your camp shall be set apart, that he may not check it out an unclean thing in ya, and turn away from ya.
 15. ya won't deliver to his boss a helper who is escaped from his boss to ya:
 16. he shall dwell with ya, in the midst of ya, in the place which he shall choose within one of your gates, where it pleases him best: ya won't oppress him.
 17. there shall be no prostitute of the daughters of Israel, neither shall there be a sodomite of the sons of Israel.
 18. ya won't bring the hire of a prostitute, or the wages of a dog, into the house of Yahweh your God for any vow: for even both these are an abomination to Yahweh your God.
 19. ya won't lend on interest to your fam bro; interest of money, interest of food, interest of anything that is lent on interest:
 20. to a foreigner ya may lend on interest; but to your fam bro ya won't lend on interest, that Yahweh your God may bless ya in all that ya put your hand to, in the land where ya slide in to possess it.
 21. When ya shall vow a vow to Yahweh your God, ya won't be slack to pay it: for Yahweh your God will surely require it of ya; and it would be messing up in ya.
 22. But if ya shall forbear to vow, it shall be no messing up in ya.
 23. That which is gone out of your lips ya shall observe and do; according as ya have vowed to Yahweh your God, a freewill giving to God, which ya have promised with your mouth.
 24. When ya come through into your neighbor’s vineyard, then ya may eat of grapes your fill at your own pleasure; but ya won't put any in your vessel.
 25. When ya come through into your neighbor’s standing grain, then ya may pluck the ears with your hand; but ya won't move a sickle to your neighbor’s standing grain.
