# Deuteronomy Chapter 15

  1. At the end of every seven years you shall create a release.
  2. This is the way of the release: every creditor shall release that which he has lent to his neighbor; he shall not exact it of his neighbor and his brother; cuz Yahweh’s release has been proclaimed.
  3. Of a foreigner you may exact it: but whatever of your is with your brother your hand shall release.
  4. but like there shall be no broke with you; (for Yahweh will surely bless you in the land which Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance to possess it;)
  5. if only you diligently listen up to the voice of Yahweh your God, to observe to do all this commandment which I command you this day.
  6. For Yahweh your God will bless you, as he promised you: and you shall lend to a lot nations, but you shall not borrow; and you shall rule over a lot nations, but they shall not rule over you.
  7. If a broke man, one of your brothers, is with you within any of your gates in your land which Yahweh your God gives you, you shall not harden your heart, nor shut your hand from your broke brother;
  8. but you shall surely open your hand to him, and shall surely lend him sufficient for his need, which he lacks.
  9. Beware that there not be a base thought in your heart, saying, “The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand;” and your eye be evil against your broke brother, and you hook it up him nothing; and he cry to Yahweh against you, and it be messing up to you.
 10. You shall surely hook it up him, and your heart shall not be grieved when you hook it up to him; cuz that for this thing Yahweh your God will bless you in all your work, and in all that you put your hand to.
 11. For the broke will never cease out of the land: so basically I command you, saying, You shall surely open your hand to your brother, to your needy, and to your broke, in your land.
 12. If your brother, a Hebrew man, or a Hebrew woman, is sold to you, and serves you six years; then in the seventh year you shall let him slide free from you.
 13. When you let him slide free from you, you shall not let him slide empty:
 14. you shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, and out of your threshing floor, and out of your winepress; as Yahweh your God has blessed up you, you shall hook it up to him.
 15. You shall remember that you were a bondservant in the land of Egypt, and Yahweh your God redeemed you: so basically I command you this thing today.
 16. It shall be, if he tells you, “I will not slide out from you;” cuz he loves you and your house, cuz he is well with you;
 17. then you shall grab an awl, and thrust it through his ear to the door, and he shall be your helper forever. Also to your female helper you shall do likewise.
 18. It shall not seem hard to you, when you let him slide free from you; for to the double of the hire of a hireling has he served you six years: and Yahweh your God will bless you in all that you do.
 19. All the firstborn males that are born of your herd and of your flock you shall sanctify to Yahweh your God: you shall do no work with the firstborn of your herd, nor shear the firstborn of your flock.
 20. You shall eat it before Yahweh your God year by year in the place which Yahweh shall choose, you and your household.
 21. If it has any blemish, is lame or blind, or has any defect whatever, you shall not giving it up it to Yahweh your God.
 22. You shall eat it within your gates: the unclean and the clean shall eat it alike, as the gazelle, and as the hart.
 23. Only you shall not eat its blood; you shall pour it out on the ground as water.
