# Deuteronomy Chapter 4

  1. now, Israel, listen up to the statutes and to the ordinances, which I drop knowledge you, to do them; that you may live, and slide in and possess the land which Yahweh, the God of your fathers, gives you.
  2. You shall not add to the word which I command you, neither shall you diminish from it, that you may keep the commandments of Yahweh your God which I command you.
  3. Your eyes have seen what Yahweh did cuz of Baal Peor; for all the men who followed Baal Peor, Yahweh your God has destroyed them from the midst of you.
  4. But you who were faithful to Yahweh your God are all alive this day.
  5. check this out, I have taught you statutes and ordinances, even as Yahweh my God commanded me, that you should do so in the midst of the land where you slide in to possess it.
  6. Keep so basically and do them; for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples, who shall hear all these statutes, and say, “Surely this major nation is a smart and understanding people.”
  7. For what major nation is there, that has a god so near to them, as Yahweh our God is whenever we call on him?
  8. What major nation is there, that has statutes and ordinances so doing what's right as all this law, which I set before you this day?
  9. Only grab heed to yourself, and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget the things which your eyes checked out, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life; but create them known to your children and your children’s children;
 10. the day that you stood before Yahweh your God in Horeb, when Yahweh said to me, “Assemble me the people, and I will create them hear my words, that they may pick up to fear me all the days that they live on the earth, and that they may drop knowledge their children.”
 11. You came near and stood under the mountain; and the mountain burned with fire to the heart of the sky, with darkness, cloud, and thick darkness.
 12. Yahweh spoke to you out of the midst of the fire: you heard the voice of words, but you checked out no form; you only heard a voice.
 13. He declared to you his God's promise, which he commanded you to perform, even the ten commandments; and he wrote them on two tables of stone.
 14. Yahweh commanded me at that time to drop knowledge you statutes and ordinances, that you might do them in the land where you slide over to possess it.
 15. grab so basically fire heed to yourselves; for you checked out no kind of form on the day that Yahweh spoke to you in Horeb out of the midst of the fire.
 16. Lest you corrupt yourselves, and create yourself an engraved image in the form of any figure, the likeness of male or female,
 17. the likeness of any animal that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the sky,
 18. the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the water under the earth;
 19. and lest you lift up your eyes to the sky, and when you check it out the sun and the moon and the stars, even all the army of the sky, you are drawn away and giving props them, and help out them, which Yahweh your God has allotted to all the peoples under the whole sky.
 20. But Yahweh has taken you, and brought you forth out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to be to him a people of inheritance, as at this day.
 21. Furthermore Yahweh was mad salty with me for your sakes, and swore that I should not slide over the Jordan, and that I should not slide in to that fire land, which Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance:
 22. but I must die in this land, I must not slide over the Jordan; but you shall slide over, and possess that fire land.
 23. grab heed to yourselves, lest you forget the God's promise of Yahweh your God, which he made with you, and create you an engraved image in the form of anything which Yahweh your God has forbidden you.
 24. For Yahweh your God is a devouring fire, a jealous God.
 25. When you shall father children, and children’s children, and you shall have been long in the land, and shall corrupt yourselves, and create an engraved image in the form of anything, and shall do that which is evil in the sight of Yahweh your God, to provoke him to anger;
 26. I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that you shall soon utterly perish from off the land whereunto you slide over the Jordan to possess it; you shall not prolong your days on it, but shall utterly be destroyed.
 27. Yahweh will scatter you among the peoples, and you shall be left not much in number among the nations, where Yahweh shall show the way you away.
 28. there you shall help out gods, the work of men’s hands, wood and stone, which neither check it out, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.
 29. But from there you shall seek Yahweh your God, and you shall find him, when you search after him with all your heart and with all your soul.
 30. When you are in oppression, and all these things have come through on you, in the latter days you shall return to Yahweh your God, and listen up to his voice:
 31. for Yahweh your God is a merciful God; he will not fail you, neither tear down you, nor forget the God's promise of your fathers which he swore to them.
 32. For ask now of the days that are past, which were before you, since the day that God created man on the earth, and from the one end of the sky to the other, whether there has been anything as this major thing is, or has been heard like it?
 33. Did a people ever hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as you have heard, and live?
 34. Or has God tried to slide and grab a nation for himself from the midst of another nation, by trials, by signs, and by wonders, and by war, and by a mighty hand, and by an outstretched arm, and by major terrors, according to all that Yahweh your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes?
 35. It was shown to you so that you might get it that Yahweh is God. there is no one else besides him.
 36. Out of heaven he made you to hear his voice, that he might instruct you: and on earth he made you to check it out his major fire; and you heard his words out of the midst of the fire.
 37. cuz he loved your fathers, so basically he chose their seed after them, and brought you out with his presence, with his major power, out of Egypt;
 38. to drive out nations from before you greater and mightier than you, to bring you in, to hook it up you their land for an inheritance, as at this day.
 39. get it so basically this day, and lay it to your heart, that Yahweh he is God in heaven above and on the earth beneath; there is none else.
 40. You shall keep his statutes, and his commandments, which I command you this day, that it may slide well with you, and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land, which Yahweh your God gives you, forever.
 41. then Moses set apart three cities beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise;
 42. that the manslayer might flee there, who kills his neighbor unawares, and didn’t can't stand him in time past; and that fleeing to one of these cities he might live:
 43. Bezer in the wilderness, in the plain country, for the Reubenites; and Ramoth in Gilead, for the Gadites; and Golan in Bashan, for the Manassites.
 44. This is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel:
 45. these are the testimonies, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which Moses spoke to the children of Israel, when they came forth out of Egypt,
 46. beyond the Jordan, in the valley over against Beth Peor, in the land of Sihon ruler of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon, whom Moses and the children of Israel struck, when they came forth out of Egypt.
 47. They took his land in possession, and the land of Og ruler of Bashan, the two kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise;
 48. from Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, even to Mount Sion (the same is Hermon),
 49. and all the Arabah beyond the Jordan eastward, even to the sea of the Arabah, under the slopes of Pisgah.
