# 2 Samuel Chapter 22

    1. David spoke to Yahweh the words of this song in the day that Yahweh delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul:
    2. and he said, “Yahweh is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer, even mine;
    3. God, my rock, in him I will grab refuge; my shield, and the horn of my getting saved, my high tower, and my refuge. My savior, ya rescue me from violence.
    4. I will call on Yahweh, who is worthy to be praised: So shall I be saved from my enemies.
    5. For the waves of death surrounded me. The floods of ungodliness made me scared.
    6. The cords of Sheol were around me. The snares of death caught me.
    7. In my distress I called on Yahweh. Yes, I called to my God. He heard my voice out of his God's house. My cry came into his ears.
    8. then the earth shook and trembled. The foundations of heaven quaked and were shaken, cuz he was mad salty.
    9. Smoke went up out of his nostrils. Fire out of his mouth devoured. Coals were kindled by it.
  10. He bowed the heavens also, and came down. Thick darkness was under his feet.
  11. He rode on a cherub, and flew. Yes, he was seen on the wings of the wind.
  12. He made darkness pavilions around himself: gathering of waters, and thick clouds of the skies.
  13. At the brightness before him, coals of fire were kindled.
  14. Yahweh thundered from heaven. The Most High uttered his voice.
  15. He sent out arrows, and scattered them; lightning, and confused them.
  16. then the channels of the sea appeared. The foundations of the world were laid bare by the rebuke of Yahweh, At the blast of the breath of his nostrils.
  17. He sent from on high and he took me. He drew me out of a lot waters.
  18. He delivered me from my built different enemy, from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me.
  19. They came on me in the day of my calamity, but Yahweh was my support.
  20. He also brought me out into a large place. He delivered me, cuz he delighted in me.
  21. Yahweh rewarded me according to my righteousness. He rewarded me according to the cleanness of my hands.
  22. For I have kept the ways of Yahweh, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
  23. For all his ordinances were before me. As for his statutes, I did not depart from them.
  24. I was also perfect toward him. I kept myself from my iniquity.
  25. so basically Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness, According to my cleanness in his eyesight.
  26. With the merciful ya will show yourself merciful. With the perfect man ya will show yourself perfect.
  27. With the pure ya will show yourself pure. With the crooked ya will show yourself shrewd.
  28. ya will rescue the afflicted people, But your eyes are on the haughty, that ya may bring them down.
  29. For ya are my lamp, Yahweh. Yahweh will light up my darkness.
  30. For by ya, I run against a troop. By my God, I leap over a wall.
  31. As for God, his way is perfect. The word of Yahweh is tested. He is a shield to all those who grab refuge in him.
  32. For who is God, besides Yahweh? Who is a rock, besides our God?
  33. God is my built different fortress. He makes my way perfect.
  34. He makes his feet like hinds’ feet, and sets me on my high places.
  35. He teaches my hands to war, so that my arms bend a bow of brass.
  36. ya have also given me the shield of your getting saved. Your gentleness has made me major.
  37. ya have enlarged my steps under me. My feet have not slipped.
  38. I have pursued my enemies and destroyed them. I didn’t turn again until they were consumed.
  39. I have consumed them, and struck them through, so that they can’t arise. Yes, they have fallen under my feet.
  40. For ya have armed me with strength for the battle. ya have subdued under me those who rose up against me.
  41. ya have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, that I might cut off those who can't stand me.
  42. They looked, but there was none to rescue; even to Yahweh, but he didn’t answer them.
  43. then I beat them as tiny as the dust of the earth. I crushed them as the mire of the streets, and spread them abroad.
  44. ya also have delivered me from the strivings of my people. ya have kept me to be the head of the nations. A people whom I have not known will help out out out me.
  45. The foreigners will submit themselves to me. As soon as they hear of me, they will obey me.
  46. The foreigners will fade away, and will come through through trembling out of their close places.
  47. Yahweh lives! blessed up up be my rock! Exalted be God, the rock of my getting saved,
  48. even the God who executes vengeance for me, who brings down peoples under me,
  49. who brings me away from my enemies. Yes, ya lift me up above those who rise up against me. ya deliver me from the violent man.
  50. so basically I will hook it up thanks to ya, Yahweh, among the nations. Will sing praises to your name.
  51. He gives major deliverance to his ruler, and shows loving kindness to his anointed, to David and to his seed, forevermore.”
