# 2 Samuel Chapter 7

    1. It happened, when the ruler lived in his house, and Yahweh had given him rest from all his enemies all around,
    2. that the ruler said to Nathan the God's messenger, “check it out now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells within curtains.”
    3. Nathan said to the ruler, “slide, do all that is in your heart; for Yahweh is with ya.”
    4. It happened the same night, that the word of Yahweh came to Nathan, saying,
    5. “slide and tell my helper David, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Shall ya put together me a house for me to dwell in?
    6. For I have not lived in a house since the day that I brought up the children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have moved around in a tent and in a tabernacle.
    7. In all places in which I have walked with all the children of Israel, did I say a word to any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people Israel, saying, ‘Why have ya not built me a house of cedar?’”’
    8. now so basically ya shall tell my helper David this, ‘Thus says Yahweh of Armies, “I took ya from the sheep pen, from following the sheep, that ya should be prince over my people, over Israel.
    9. I have been with ya wherever ya went, and have cut off all your enemies from before ya. I will create ya a major name, like the name of the major ones who are in the earth.
  10. I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as at the first,
  11. and as from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel. I will cause ya to rest from all your enemies. Moreover Yahweh tells ya that Yahweh will create ya a house.
  12. When your days are fulfilled, and ya shall sleep with your fathers, I will set up your seed after ya, who shall proceed out of your bowels, and I will establish his God's squad.
  13. He shall put together a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his God's squad forever.
  14. I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men;
  15. but my loving kindness won't depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before ya.
  16. Your house and your God's squad shall be made sure forever before ya. Your throne shall be established forever.”’”
  17. According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David.
  18. then David the ruler went in, and sat before Yahweh; and he said, “Who am I, boss Yahweh, and what is my house, that ya have brought me thus far?
  19. This was yet a tiny thing in your eyes, boss Yahweh; but ya have spoken also of your helper’s house for a major while to come through through; and this after the way of men, boss Yahweh!
  20. What more can David say to ya? For ya get it your helper, boss Yahweh.
  21. For your word’s sake, and according to your own heart, ya have worked all this greatness, to create your helper get it it.
  22. so basically ya are major, Yahweh God. For there is none like ya, neither is there any God besides ya, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
  23. What one nation in the earth is like your people, even like Israel, whom God went to redeem to himself for a people, and to create himself a name, and to do major things for ya, and awesome things for your land, before your people, whom ya redeem to yourself out of Egypt, from the nations and their gods?
  24. ya established for yourself your people Israel to be a people to ya forever; and ya, Yahweh, became their God.
  25. now, Yahweh God, the word that ya have spoken concerning your helper, and concerning his house, confirm it forever, and do as ya have spoken.
  26. Let your name be magnified forever, saying, ‘Yahweh of Armies is God over Israel; and the house of your helper David shall be established before ya.’
  27. For ya, Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, have revealed to your helper, saying, ‘I will put together ya a house.’ so basically your helper has found in his heart to pray this talking to God to ya.
  28. “now, O boss Yahweh, ya are God, and your words are truth, and ya have promised this fire thing to your helper.
  29. now so basically let it please ya to bless the house of your helper, that it may continue forever before ya; for ya, boss Yahweh, have spoken it. Let the house of your helper be blessed up up forever with your blessing.”
