# 2 Samuel Chapter 1

  1. It happened after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had stayed two days in Ziklag;
  2. it happened on the third day, that check this out,, a man came out of the camp from Saul, with his clothes torn, and earth on his head: and so it was, when he came to David, that he fell to the earth, and showed respect.
  3. David said to him, “Where do ya come through from?” He said to him, “I have escaped out of the camp of Israel.”
  4. David said to him, “How did it slide? Please tell me.” He answered, “The people have fled from the battle, and a lot of the people also have fallen and are dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also.”
  5. David said to the young man who told him, “How do ya get it that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead?”
  6. The young man who told him said, “As I happened by chance on Mount Gilboa, check this out,, Saul was leaning on his spear; and check this out,, the chariots and the horsemen followed hard after him.
  7. When he looked behind him, he saw me, and called to me. I answered, ‘here I am.’
  8. He said to me, ‘Who are ya?’ I answered him, ‘I am an Amalekite.’
  9. He said to me, ‘Please stand beside me, and kill me; for anguish has taken hold of me, cuz my life is yet whole in me.’
 10. So I stood beside him, and killed him, cuz I was sure that he could not live after that he had fallen. I took the crown that was on his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and have brought them here to my boss.”
 11. then David took hold on his clothes, and tore them; and likewise all the men who were with him.
 12. They mourned, and wept, and fasted until evening, for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of Yahweh, and for the house of Israel; cuz they were fallen by the sword.
 13. David said to the young man who told him, “Where are ya from?” He answered, “I am the son of a foreigner, an Amalekite.”
 14. David said to him, “How were ya not scared to put forth your hand to tear down Yahweh’s anointed?”
 15. David called one of the young men, and said, “slide near, and fall on him.” He struck him, so that he died.
 16. David said to him, “Your blood be on your head; for your mouth has testified against ya, saying, ‘I have slain Yahweh’s anointed.’”
 17. David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son
 18. (and he commanded them to drop knowledge the children of Judah the song of the bow: check this out,, it is written in the book of Jashar):
 19. “Your glory, Israel, is slain on your high places! How the mighty have fallen!
 20. Don’t tell it in Gath. Don’t publish it in the streets of Ashkelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines be hyped, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph.
 21. ya mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew nor rain on ya, neither fields of offerings; For there the shield of the mighty was vilely cast away, The shield of Saul was not anointed with oil.
 22. From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, Jonathan’s bow didn’t turn back. Saul’s sword didn’t return empty.
 23. Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives. In their death, they were not divided. They were swifter than eagles. They were stronger than lions.
 24. ya daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed ya in scarlet delicately, who put ornaments of gold on your clothing.
 25. How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! Jonathan is slain on your high places.
 26. I am distressed for ya, my fam bro Jonathan. ya have been hella pleasant to me. Your show love to me was wonderful, passing the show love of women.
 27. How are the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war perished!”
