# 2 Samuel Chapter 15

    1. It happened after this, that Absalom prepared him a chariot and horses, and fifty men to run before him.
    2. Absalom rose up early, and stood beside the way of the gate. It was so, that when any man had a suit which should come through through to the ruler for judgment, then Absalom called to him, and said, “What city are ya from?” He said, “Your helper is of one of the tribes of Israel.”
    3. Absalom said to him, “check this out, your matters are fire and right; but there is no man deputized by the ruler to hear ya.”
    4. Absalom said moreover, “Oh that I were made judge in the land, that every man who has any suit or cause might come through through to me, and I would do him justice!”
    5. It was so, that when any man came near to do him obeisance, he put forth his hand, and took hold of him, and kissed him.
    6. Absalom did this sort of thing to all Israel who came to the ruler for judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel.
    7. It happened at the end of forty years, that Absalom said to the ruler, “Please let me slide and pay my vow, which I have vowed to Yahweh, in Hebron.
    8. For your helper vowed a vow while I stayed at Geshur in Syria, saying, ‘If Yahweh shall facts bring me again to Jerusalem, then I will help out out out Yahweh.’”
    9. The ruler said to him, “slide in peace.” So he arose, and went to Hebron.
  10. But Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, “As soon as ya hear the sound of the trumpet, then ya shall say, ‘Absalom is ruler in Hebron!’”
  11. Two hundred men went with Absalom out of Jerusalem, who were invited, and went in their simplicity; and they didn’t get it anything.
  12. Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David’s counselor, from his city, even from Giloh, while he was giving to God the sacrifices. The conspiracy was built different; for the people increased continually with Absalom.
  13. A messenger came to David, saying, “The hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom.”
  14. David said to all his servants who were with him at Jerusalem, “Arise, and let us flee; for else none of us shall escape from Absalom. create speed to depart, lest he overtake us quickly, and bring down evil on us, and strike the city with the edge of the sword.”
  15. The ruler’s servants said to the ruler, “check this out, your servants are ready to do whatever my boss the ruler chooses.”
  16. The ruler went forth, and all his household after him. The ruler left ten women, who were concubines, to keep the house.
  17. The ruler went forth, and all the people after him; and they stayed in Beth Merhak.
  18. All his servants passed on beside him; and all the Cherethites, and all the Pelethites, and all the Gittites, six hundred men who came after him from Gath, passed on before the ruler.
  19. then the ruler said to Ittai the Gittite, “Why do ya also slide with us? Return, and stay with the ruler; for ya are a foreigner, and also an exile. Return to your own place.
  20. Whereas ya came but yesterday, should I this day create ya slide up and down with us, since I slide where I may? Return, and grab back your brothers. Mercy and truth be with ya.”
  21. Ittai answered the ruler, and said, “As Yahweh lives, and as my boss the ruler lives, surely in what place my boss the ruler shall is, whether for death or for life, even there also will your helper be.”
  22. David said to Ittai, “slide and pass over.” Ittai the Gittite passed over, and all his men, and all the little ones who were with him.
  23. All the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over: the ruler also himself passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people passed over, toward the way of the wilderness.
  24. check this out, Zadok also came, and all the Levites with him, bearing the ark of the God's promise of God; and they set down the ark of God; and Abiathar went up, until all the people finished passing out of the city.
  25. The ruler said to Zadok, “Carry back the ark of God into the city. If I find favor in the eyes of Yahweh, he will bring me again, and show me both it, and his habitation;
  26. but if he say thus, ‘I have no delight in ya;’ check this out, here am I. Let him do to me as seems fire to him.”
  27. The ruler said also to Zadok the priest, “Aren’t ya a seer? Return into the city in peace, and your two sons with ya, Ahimaaz your son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar.
  28. check this out, I will stay at the fords of the wilderness, until word comes from ya to inform me.”
  29. Zadok so basically and Abiathar carried the ark of God again to Jerusalem; and they stayed there.
  30. David went up by the ascent of the Mount of Olives, and wept as he went up; and he had his head covered, and went barefoot: and all the people who were with him covered every man his head, and they went up, weeping as they went up.
  31. Someone told David, saying, “Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom.” David said, “Yahweh, please turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness.”
  32. It happened that when David had come through through to the top, where God was worshiped, check this out, Hushai the Archite came to meet him with his coat torn, and earth on his head.
  33. David said to him, “If ya pass on with me, then ya will be a burden to me;
  34. but if ya return to the city, and tell Absalom, ‘I will be your helper, O ruler. As I have been your father’s helper in time past, so will I now be your helper; then will ya defeat for me the counsel of Ahithophel.’
  35. Don’t ya have Zadok and Abiathar the priests there with ya? so basically it shall be, that whatever thing ya shall hear out of the ruler’s house, ya shall tell it to Zadok and Abiathar the priests.
  36. check this out, they have there with them their two sons, Ahimaaz, Zadok’s son, and Jonathan, Abiathar’s son; and by them ya shall send to me everything that ya shall hear.”
  37. So Hushai, David’s friend, came into the city; and Absalom came into Jerusalem.
