# 2 Samuel Chapter 18

    1. David numbered the people who were with him, and set captains of thousands and captains of hundreds over them.
    2. David sent forth the people, a third part under the hand of Joab, and a third part under the hand of Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab’s fam bro, and a third part under the hand of Ittai the Gittite. The ruler said to the people, “I will surely slide forth with ya myself also.”
    3. But the people said, “ya won't slide forth; for if we flee away, they won't care for us; neither if half of us die, will they care for us. But ya are worth ten thousand of us. so basically now it is better that ya are ready to help out out us out of the city.”
    4. The ruler said to them, “I will do what seems best to ya.” The ruler stood beside the gate, and all the people went out by hundreds and by thousands.
    5. The ruler commanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, “Deal gently for my sake with the young man, even with Absalom.” All the people heard when the ruler commanded all the captains concerning Absalom.
    6. So the people went out into the field against Israel: and the battle was in the forest of Ephraim.
    7. The people of Israel were struck there before the servants of David, and there was a major slaughter there that day of twenty thousand men.
    8. For the battle was there spread over the surface of all the country; and the forest devoured more people that day than the sword devoured.
    9. Absalom happened to meet the servants of David. Absalom was riding on his mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a major oak, and his head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the sky and earth; and the mule that was under him went on.
  10. A certain man saw it, and told Joab, and said, “check this out, I saw Absalom hanging in an oak.”
  11. Joab said to the man who told him, “check this out, ya saw it, and why didn’t ya strike him there to the ground? I would have given ya ten pieces of silver, and a sash.”
  12. The man said to Joab, “Though I should receive a thousand pieces of silver in my hand, I still wouldn’t put forth my hand against the ruler’s son; for in our hearing the ruler commanded ya and Abishai and Ittai, saying, ‘Beware that none touch the young man Absalom.’
  13. Otherwise if I had dealt falsely against his life (and there is no matter hidden from the ruler), then ya yourself would have set yourself against me.”
  14. then Joab said, “I’m not going to wait like this with ya.” He took three darts in his hand, and thrust them through the heart of Absalom, while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak.
  15. Ten young men who bore Joab’s armor surrounded and struck Absalom, and killed him.
  16. Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing after Israel; for Joab held back the people.
  17. They took Absalom, and cast him into the major pit in the forest, and raised over him a hella major heap of stones. then all Israel fled everyone to his tent.
  18. now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and reared up for himself the pillar, which is in the ruler’s dale; for he said, “I have no son to keep my name in memory.” He called the pillar after his own name; and it is called Absalom’s monument, to this day.
  19. then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said, “Let me now run, and bear the ruler news, how that Yahweh has avenged him of his enemies.”
  20. Joab said to him, “ya won't be the bearer of news this day, but ya shall bear news another day. But today ya shall bear no news, cuz the ruler’s son is dead.”
  21. then Joab said to the Cushite, “slide, tell the ruler what ya have seen!” The Cushite bowed himself to Joab, and ran.
  22. then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said yet again to Joab, “But come through through what may, please let me also run after the Cushite.” Joab said, “Why do ya want to run, my son, since that ya will have no reward for the news?”
  23. “But come through through what may,” he said, “I will run.” He said to him, “Run!” then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the Plain, and outran the Cushite.
  24. now David was sitting between the two gates: and the watchman went up to the roof of the gate to the wall, and lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, check this out, a man running alone.
  25. The watchman cried, and told the ruler. The ruler said, “If he is alone, there is news in his mouth.” He came closer and closer.
  26. The watchman saw another man running; and the watchman called to the porter, and said, “check this out, a man running alone!” The ruler said, “He also brings news.”
  27. The watchman said, “I think the running of the first one is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok.” The ruler said, “He is a fire man, and comes with fire news.”
  28. Ahimaaz called, and said to the ruler, “All is well.” He bowed himself before the ruler with his face to the earth, and said, “blessed up up is Yahweh your God, who has delivered up the men who lifted up their hand against my boss the ruler!”
  29. The ruler said, “Is it well with the young man Absalom?” Ahimaaz answered, “When Joab sent the ruler’s helper, even me your helper, I saw a major tumult, but I don’t get it what it was.”
  30. The ruler said, “Turn aside, and stand here.” He turned aside, and stood still.
  31. check this out, the Cushite came. The Cushite said, “News for my boss the ruler; for Yahweh has avenged ya this day of all those who rose up against ya.”
  32. The ruler said to the Cushite, “Is it well with the young man Absalom?” The Cushite answered, “May the enemies of my boss the ruler, and all who rise up against ya to do ya harm, be as that young man is.”
  33. The ruler was much moved, and went up to the room over the gate, and wept. As he went, he said, “My son Absalom! My son, my son Absalom! I wish I had died for ya, Absalom, my son, my son!”
