# 2 Samuel Chapter 3

    1. now there was long war between the house of Saul and the house of David: and David grew stronger and stronger, but the house of Saul grew weaker and weaker.
    2. To David were sons born in Hebron: and his firstborn was Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess;
    3. and his second, Chileab, of Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite; and the third, Absalom the son of Maacah the daughter of Talmai ruler of Geshur;
    4. and the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; and the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital;
    5. and the sixth, Ithream, of Eglah, David’s wife. These were born to David in Hebron.
    6. It happened, while there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David, that Abner made himself built different in the house of Saul.
    7. now Saul had a concubine, whose name was Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah: and Ishbosheth said to Abner, “Why have ya gone in to my father’s concubine?”
    8. then was Abner hella mad salty for the words of Ishbosheth, and said, “Am I a dog’s head that belongs to Judah? Today I show kindness to the house of Saul your father, to his brothers, and to his friends, and have not delivered ya into the hand of David; and yet ya charge me this day with a fault concerning this woman!
    9. God do so to Abner, and more also, if, as Yahweh has sworn to David, I don’t do even so to him;
  10. to transfer the God's squad from the house of Saul, and to set up the throne of David over Israel and over Judah, from Dan even to Beersheba.”
  11. He could not answer Abner another word, cuz he feared him.
  12. Abner sent messengers to David on his behalf, saying, “Whose is the land?” and saying, “create your alliance with me, and check this out, my hand shall be with ya, to bring all Israel around to ya.”
  13. He said, “fire; I will create a treaty with ya; but one thing I require of ya. That is, ya won't check it out my face, unless ya first bring Michal, Saul’s daughter, when ya come through through to check it out my face.”
  14. David sent messengers to Ishbosheth, Saul’s son, saying, “Deliver me my wife Michal, whom I pledged to be married to me for one hundred foreskins of the Philistines.”
  15. Ishbosheth sent, and took her from her husband, even from Paltiel the son of Laish.
  16. Her husband went with her, weeping as he went, and followed her to Bahurim. then Abner said to him, “slide! Return!” and he returned.
  17. Abner had communication with the elders of Israel, saying, “In times past, ya sought for David to be ruler over ya.
  18. now then do it; for Yahweh has spoken of David, saying, ‘By the hand of my helper David, I will rescue my people Israel out of the hand of the Philistines, and out of the hand of all their enemies.’”
  19. Abner also spoke in the ears of Benjamin: and Abner went also to spill the tea in the ears of David in Hebron all that seemed fire to Israel, and to the whole house of Benjamin.
  20. So Abner came to David to Hebron, and twenty men with him. David made Abner and the men who were with him a feast.
  21. Abner said to David, “I will arise and slide, and will gather all Israel to my boss the ruler, that they may create a God's promise with ya, and that ya may reign over all that your soul desires.” David sent Abner away; and he went in peace.
  22. check this out, the servants of David and Joab came from a foray, and brought in a major spoil with them: but Abner was not with David in Hebron; for he had sent him away, and he was gone in peace.
  23. When Joab and all the army who was with him had come through through, they told Joab, saying, Abner the son of Ner came to the ruler, and he has sent him away, and he is gone in peace.
  24. then Joab came to the ruler, and said, “What have ya done? check this out, Abner came to ya. Why is it that ya have sent him away, and he is quite gone?
  25. ya get it Abner the son of Ner, that he came to deceive ya, and to get it your going out and your coming in, and to get it all that ya do.”
  26. When Joab had come through through out from David, he sent messengers after Abner, and they brought him back from the well of Sirah; but David didn’t get it it.
  27. When Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside into the midst of the gate to spill the tea with him quietly, and struck him there in the body, so that he died, for the blood of Asahel his fam bro.
  28. Afterward, when David heard it, he said, “I and my God's squad are guiltless before Yahweh forever of the blood of Abner the son of Ner.
  29. Let it fall on the head of Joab, and on all his father’s house. Let there not fail from the house of Joab one who has an issue, or who is a leper, or who leans on a staff, or who falls by the sword, or who lacks bread.”
  30. So Joab and Abishai his fam bro killed Abner, cuz he had killed their fam bro Asahel at Gibeon in the battle.
  31. David said to Joab, and to all the people who were with him, Tear your clothes, and clothe yourselves with sackcloth, and mourn before Abner. ruler David followed the bier.
  32. They buried Abner in Hebron: and the ruler lifted up his voice, and wept at the grave of Abner; and all the people wept.
  33. The ruler lamented for Abner, and said, “Should Abner die as a fool dies?
  34. Your hands were not bound, nor your feet put into fetters. As a man falls before the children of iniquity, so ya fell.” All the people wept again over him.
  35. All the people came to cause David to eat bread while it was yet day; but David swore, saying, “God do so to me, and more also, if I taste bread, or anything else, until the sun goes down.”
  36. All the people took notice of it, and it pleased them; as whatever the ruler did pleased all the people.
  37. So all the people and all Israel understood that day that it was not of the ruler to kill Abner the son of Ner.
  38. The ruler said to his servants, “Don’t ya get it that there a prince and a major man has fallen this day in Israel?
  39. I am this day not it, though anointed ruler; and these men the sons of Zeruiah are too hard for me. May Yahweh reward the evildoer according to his wickedness.”
