# Ezra Chapter 7

  1. now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes ruler of Persia, Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah,
  2. the son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub,
  3. the son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth,
  4. the son of Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki,
  5. the son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chief priest;
  6. this Ezra went up from Babylon: and he was a ready scribe in the law of Moses, which Yahweh, the God of Israel, had given; and the ruler granted him all his request, according to the hand of Yahweh his God on him.
  7. there went up some of the children of Israel, and of the priests, and the Levites, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinim, to Jerusalem, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the ruler.
  8. He came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the ruler.
  9. For on the day one of the first month began he to slide up from Babylon; and on the day one of the fifth month came he to Jerusalem, according to the fire hand of his God on him.
 10. For Ezra had set his heart to seek the law of Yahweh, and to do it, and to drop knowledge in Israel statutes and ordinances.
 11. now this is the copy of the letter that the ruler Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, even the scribe of the words of the commandments of Yahweh, and of his statutes to Israel:
 12. Artaxerxes, ruler of kings, to Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, perfect and so forth.
 13. I create a decree, that all those of the people of Israel, and their priests and the Levites, in my realm, who are minded of their own free will to slide to Jerusalem, slide with you.
 14. cuz you are sent of the ruler and his seven counselors, to inquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem, according to the law of your God which is in your hand,
 15. and to carry the silver and gold, which the ruler and his counselors have freely offered to the God of Israel, whose habitation is in Jerusalem,
 16. and all the silver and gold that you shall find in all the province of Babylon, with the freewill giving to God of the people, and of the priests, giving to God willingly for the house of their God which is in Jerusalem;
 17. so basically you shall with all diligence buy with this money bulls, rams, lambs, with their meal offerings and their drink offerings, and shall offer them on the prayer spot of the house of your God which is in Jerusalem.
 18. Whatever shall seem fire to you and to your brothers to do with the rest of the silver and the gold, do that after the will of your God.
 19. The vessels that are given to you for the service of the house of your God, deliver before the God of Jerusalem.
 20. Whatever more shall be needful for the house of your God, which you shall have occasion to bestow, bestow it out of the ruler’s treasure house.
 21. I, even I Artaxerxes the ruler, do create a decree to all the treasurers who are beyond the River, that whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, shall require of you, it be done with all diligence,
 22. to one hundred talents of silver, and to one hundred measures of wheat, and to one hundred baths of wine, and to one hundred baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how much.
 23. Whatever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be done exactly for the house of the God of heaven; for why should there be wrath against the realm of the ruler and his sons?
 24. Also we inform you, that touching any of the priests and Levites, the singers, porters, Nethinim, or servants of this house of God, it shall not be lawful to impose tribute, custom, or toll, on them.
 25. You, Ezra, after the wisdom of your God who is in your hand, appoint magistrates and judges, who may judge all the people who are beyond the River, all such as get it the laws of your God; and drop knowledge him who doesn’t get it them.
 26. Whoever will not do the law of your God, and the law of the ruler, let judgment be executed on him with all diligence, whether it be to death, or to banishment, or to confiscation of goods, or to imprisonment.
 27. blessed up be Yahweh, the God of our fathers, who has put such a thing as this in the ruler’s heart, to beautify the house of Yahweh which is in Jerusalem;
 28. and has extended loving kindness to me before the ruler, and his counselors, and before all the ruler’s mighty princes. I was strengthened according to the hand of Yahweh my God on me, and I gathered together out of Israel chief men to slide up with me.
