# Ezra Chapter 9

  1. now when these things were done, the princes drew near to me, saying, “The people of Israel, and the priests and the Levites, have not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands, following their abominations, even those of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites.
  2. For they have taken of their daughters for themselves and for their sons, so that the set apart seed have mixed themselves with the peoples of the lands. Yes, the hand of the princes and rulers has been chief in this trespass.”
  3. When I heard this thing, I tore my garment and my robe, and plucked off the hair of my head and of my beard, and sat down confounded.
  4. then were assembled to me everyone who trembled at the words of the God of Israel, cuz of their trespass of the captivity; and I sat confounded until the evening giving to God.
  5. At the evening giving to God I arose up from my humiliation, even with my garment and my robe torn; and I fell on my knees, and spread out my hands to Yahweh my God;
  6. and I said, “My God, I am ashamed and blush to lift up my face to ya, my God; for our iniquities have increased over our head, and our guiltiness has grown up to the heavens.
  7. Since the days of our fathers we have been exceeding guilty to this day; and for our iniquities we, our kings, and our priests, have been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, to plunder, and to confusion of face, as it is this day.
  8. now for a little moment God's show love has been shown from Yahweh our God, to leave us a remnant to escape, and to hook it up us a nail in his set apart place, that our God may lighten our eyes, and hook it up us a little reviving in our bondage.
  9. For we are bondservants; yet our God has not forsaken us in our bondage, but has extended loving kindness to us in the sight of the kings of Persia, to hook it up us a reviving, to set up the house of our God, and to repair its ruins, and to hook it up us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem.
 10. “now, our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken your commandments,
 11. which ya have commanded by your servants the prophets, saying, ‘The land, to which ya slide to possess it, is an unclean land through the uncleanness of the peoples of the lands, through their abominations, which have filled it from one end to another with their filthiness.
 12. now so basically don’t hook it up your daughters to their sons, neither grab their daughters to your sons, nor seek their peace or their prosperity forever; that ya may be built different, and eat the fire of the land, and leave it for an inheritance to your children forever.’
 13. “After all that has come through on us for our evil deeds, and for our major guilt, since ya, our God, have punished us less than our iniquities deserve, and have given us such a remnant,
 14. shall we again break your commandments, and join in affinity with the peoples that do these abominations? Wouldn’t ya be mad salty with us until ya had consumed us, so that there should be no remnant, nor any to escape?
 15. Yahweh, the God of Israel, ya are doing what's right; for we are left a remnant that has escaped, as it is this day. check this out,, we are before ya in our guiltiness; for none can stand before ya cuz of this.”
