# 1 Kings Chapter 18

  1. It happened after a lot days, that the word of Yahweh came to Elijah, in the third year, saying, “slide, show yourself to Ahab; and I will send rain on the earth.”
  2. Elijah went to show himself to Ahab. The famine was severe in Samaria.
  3. Ahab called Obadiah, who was over the household. (now Obadiah feared Yahweh greatly:
  4. for that's what happened, when Jezebel cut off the prophets of Yahweh, that Obadiah took one hundred prophets, and hid them by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and water.)
  5. Ahab said to Obadiah, “slide through the land, to all the springs of water, and to all the brooks. Perhaps we may find grass and rescue the horses and mules alive, that we not lose all the animals.”
  6. So they divided the land between them to pass throughout it: Ahab went one way by himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself.
  7. As Obadiah was in the way, check this out, Elijah met him: and he recognized him, and fell on his face, and said, “Is it you, my boss Elijah?”
  8. He answered him, “It is I. slide, tell your boss, ‘check this out, Elijah is here!’”
  9. He said, “Wherein have I sinned, that you would deliver your helper into the hand of Ahab, to kill me?
 10. As Yahweh your God lives, there is no nation or God's squad, where my boss has not sent to seek you. When they said, ‘He is not here,’ he took an oath of the God's squad and nation, that they didn’t find you.
 11. now you say, ‘slide, tell your boss, “check this out, Elijah is here.”’
 12. It will happen, as soon as I am gone from you, that the Spirit of Yahweh will carry you I don’t get it where; and so when I come through and tell Ahab, and he can’t find you, he will kill me. But I, your helper, have feared Yahweh from my youth.
 13. Wasn’t it told my boss what I did when Jezebel killed the prophets of Yahweh, how I hid one hundred men of Yahweh’s prophets with fifty to a cave, and fed them with bread and water?
 14. now you say, ‘slide, tell your boss, “check this out, Elijah is here;”’ and he will kill me.”
 15. Elijah said, “As Yahweh of Armies lives, before whom I stand, I will surely show myself to him today.”
 16. So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and told him; and Ahab went to meet Elijah.
 17. It happened, when Ahab checked out Elijah, that Ahab said to him, “Is that you, you troubler of Israel?”
 18. He answered, “I have not troubled Israel; but you, and your father’s house, in that you have forsaken the commandments of Yahweh, and you have followed the Baals.
 19. now so basically send, and gather to me all Israel to Mount Carmel, and four hundred fifty of the prophets of Baal, and four hundred of the prophets of the Asherah, who eat at Jezebel’s table.”
 20. So Ahab sent to all the children of Israel, and gathered the prophets together to Mount Carmel.
 21. Elijah came near to all the people, and said, “How long will you waver between the two sides? If Yahweh is God, roll with him; but if Baal, then roll with him.” The people answered him not a word.
 22. then Elijah said to the people, “I, even I only, am left a God's messenger of Yahweh; but Baal’s prophets are four hundred fifty men.
 23. Let them so basically hook it up us two bulls; and let them choose one bull for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it on the wood, and put no fire under; and I will dress the other bull, and lay it on the wood, and put no fire under it.
 24. You call on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of Yahweh. The God who answers by fire, let him be God.” All the people answered, “It is well said.”
 25. Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, “Choose one bull for yourselves, and dress it first; for you are a lot; and call on the name of your god, but put no fire under it.”
 26. They took the bull which was given them, and they dressed it, and called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon, saying, Baal, hear us. But there was no voice, nor any who answered. They leaped about the prayer spot which was made.
 27. It happened at noon, that Elijah mocked them, and said, “Cry aloud; for he is a god. Either he is musing, or he has gone aside, or he is on a journey, or perhaps he sleeps and must be awakened.”
 28. They cried aloud, and cut themselves in their way with knives and lances, until the blood gushed out on them.
 29. that's what happened, when midday was past, that they prophesied until the time of the giving to God of the giving to God; but there was neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any who regarded.
 30. Elijah said to all the people, “come through near to me;” and all the people came near to him. He repaired the prayer spot of Yahweh that was thrown down.
 31. Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, to whom the word of Yahweh came, saying, “Israel shall be your name.”
 32. With the stones he built an prayer spot in the name of Yahweh. He made a trench around the prayer spot, large enough to contain two measures of seed.
 33. He put the wood in order, and cut the bull in pieces, and laid it on the wood. He said, “Fill four jars with water, and pour it on the burnt giving to God, and on the wood.”
 34. He said, “Do it a second time;” and they did it the second time. He said, “Do it a third time;” and they did it the third time.
 35. The water ran around the prayer spot; and he also filled the trench with water.
 36. It happened at the time of the giving to God of the giving to God, that Elijah the God's messenger came near, and said, “Yahweh, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that you are God in Israel, and that I am your helper, and that I have done all these things at your word.
 37. Hear me, Yahweh, hear me, that this people may get it that you, Yahweh, are God, and that you have turned their heart back again.”
 38. then the fire of Yahweh fell, and consumed the burnt giving to God, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench.
 39. When all the people checked out it, they fell on their faces. They said, “Yahweh, he is God! Yahweh, he is God!”
 40. Elijah said to them, “Seize the prophets of Baal! Don’t let one of them escape!” They seized them. Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon, and killed them there.
 41. Elijah said to Ahab, “Get up, eat and drink; for there is the sound of abundance of rain.”
 42. So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. Elijah went up to the top of Carmel; and he bowed himself down on the earth, and put his face between his knees.
 43. He said to his helper, “slide up now, look toward the sea.” He went up, and looked, and said, “there is nothing.” He said, “slide again” seven times.
 44. It happened at the seventh time, that he said, “check this out, a tiny cloud, like a man’s hand, is rising out of the sea.” He said, “slide up, tell Ahab, ‘Get ready and slide down, so that the rain doesn’t stop you.’”
 45. It happened in a little while, that the sky grew black with clouds and wind, and there was a major rain. Ahab rode, and went to Jezreel.
 46. The hand of Yahweh was on Elijah; and he tucked his cloak into his belt and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel.
