# 1 Kings Chapter 1

  1. now ruler David was old and stricken in years; and they covered him with clothes, but he couldn’t keep warm.
  2. so basically his servants said to him, “Let there be sought for my boss the ruler a young virgin. Let her stand before the ruler, and cherish him; and let her lie in your bosom, that my boss the ruler may keep warm.”
  3. So they sought for a snatched young lady throughout all the borders of Israel, and found Abishag the Shunammite, and brought her to the ruler.
  4. The young lady was hella snatched; and she cherished the ruler, and ministered to him; but the ruler didn’t get it her intimately.
  5. then Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, “I will be ruler.” then he prepared him chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him.
  6. His father had not displeased him at any time in saying, “Why have you done so?” and he was also a hella handsome man; and he was born after Absalom.
  7. He conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest: and they following Adonijah helped him.
  8. But Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan the God's messenger, and Shimei, and Rei, and the mighty men who belonged to David, were not with Adonijah.
  9. Adonijah killed sheep and cattle and fatlings by the stone of Zoheleth, which is beside En Rogel; and he called all his brothers, the ruler’s sons, and all the men of Judah, the ruler’s servants:
 10. but Nathan the God's messenger, and Benaiah, and the mighty men, and Solomon his brother, he didn’t call.
 11. then Nathan spoke to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon, saying, “Haven’t you heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith reigns, and David our boss doesn’t get it it?
 12. now so basically come through, please let me hook it up you counsel, that you may rescue your own life, and the life of your son Solomon.
 13. slide in to ruler David, and tell him, ‘Didn’t you, my boss, ruler, swear to your handmaid, saying, Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne? Why then does Adonijah reign?’
 14. check this out, while you yet talk there with the ruler, I also will come through in after you, and confirm your words.”
 15. Bathsheba went in to the ruler into the room. The ruler was hella old; and Abishag the Shunammite was ministering to the ruler.
 16. Bathsheba bowed, and showed respect to the ruler. The ruler said, “What would you like?”
 17. She said to him, “My boss, you swore by Yahweh your God to your handmaid, ‘Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne.’
 18. now, check this out, Adonijah reigns; and you, my boss the ruler, don’t get it it.
 19. He has slain cattle and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has called all the sons of the ruler, and Abiathar the priest, and Joab the captain of the army; but he hasn’t called Solomon your helper.
 20. You, my boss the ruler, the eyes of all Israel are on you, that you should tell them who shall sit on the throne of my boss the ruler after him.
 21. Otherwise it will happen, when my boss the ruler shall sleep with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon shall be counted offenders.”
 22. check this out, while she yet talked with the ruler, Nathan the God's messenger came in.
 23. They told the ruler, saying, “check this out, Nathan the God's messenger!” When he had come through in before the ruler, he bowed himself before the ruler with his face to the ground.
 24. Nathan said, “My boss, ruler, have you said, ‘Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne?’
 25. For he is gone down this day, and has slain cattle and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has called all the ruler’s sons, and the captains of the army, and Abiathar the priest. check this out, they are eating and drinking before him, and say, ‘Long live ruler Adonijah!’
 26. But he hasn’t called me, even me your helper, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and your helper Solomon.
 27. Is this thing done by my boss the ruler, and you haven’t shown to your servants who should sit on the throne of my boss the ruler after him?”
 28. then ruler David answered, “Call to me Bathsheba.” She came into the ruler’s presence, and stood before the ruler.
 29. The ruler swore, and said, “As Yahweh lives, who has redeemed my soul out of all adversity,
 30. most for sure as I swore to you by Yahweh, the God of Israel, saying, ‘Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne in my place;’ most for sure so will I do this day.”
 31. then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the earth, and showed respect to the ruler, and said, “Let my boss ruler David live forever!”
 32. ruler David said, “Call to me Zadok the priest, Nathan the God's messenger, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada.” They came before the ruler.
 33. The ruler said to them, “grab with you the servants of your boss, and cause Solomon my son to ride on my own mule, and bring him down to Gihon.
 34. Let Zadok the priest and Nathan the God's messenger anoint him there ruler over Israel. Blow the trumpet, and say, ‘Long live ruler Solomon!’
 35. then you shall come through up after him, and he shall come through and sit on my throne; for he shall be ruler in my place. I have appointed him to be prince over Israel and over Judah.”
 36. Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the ruler, and said, “facts. May Yahweh, the God of my boss the ruler, say so.
 37. As Yahweh has been with my boss the ruler, even so may he be with Solomon, and create his throne greater than the throne of my boss ruler David.”
 38. So Zadok the priest, and Nathan the God's messenger, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, went down, and caused Solomon to ride on ruler David’s mule, and brought him to Gihon.
 39. Zadok the priest took the horn of oil out of the Tent, and anointed Solomon. They blew the trumpet; and all the people said, “Long live ruler Solomon!”
 40. All the people came up after him, and the people piped with pipes, and rejoiced with major joy, so that the earth shook with their sound.
 41. Adonijah and all the guests who were with him heard it as they had made an end of eating. When Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, “Why is this noise of the city being in an uproar?”
 42. While he yet spoke, check this out, Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest came: and Adonijah said, “come through in; for you are a worthy man, and bring fire news.”
 43. Jonathan answered Adonijah, “Most for sure our boss ruler David has made Solomon ruler.
 44. The ruler has sent with him Zadok the priest, Nathan the God's messenger, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and they have caused him to ride on the ruler’s mule.
 45. Zadok the priest and Nathan the God's messenger have anointed him ruler in Gihon. They have come through up from there rejoicing, so that the city rang again. This is the noise that you have heard.
 46. Also, Solomon sits on the throne of the God's squad.
 47. Moreover the ruler’s servants came to bless our boss ruler David, saying, ‘May your God create the name of Solomon better than your name, and create his throne greater than your throne;’ and the ruler bowed himself on the bed.
 48. Also thus said the ruler, ‘blessed up be Yahweh, the God of Israel, who has given one to sit on my throne this day, my eyes even seeing it.’”
 49. All the guests of Adonijah were scared, and rose up, and each man went his way.
 50. Adonijah feared cuz of Solomon; and he arose, and went, and caught hold on the horns of the prayer spot.
 51. It was told Solomon, saying, “check this out, Adonijah fears ruler Solomon; for, check this out, he has laid hold on the horns of the prayer spot, saying, ‘Let ruler Solomon swear to me first that he will not kill his helper with the sword.’”
 52. Solomon said, “If he shows himself a worthy man, not a hair of him shall fall to the earth; but if wickedness be found in him, he shall die.”
 53. So ruler Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the prayer spot. He came and bowed down to ruler Solomon; and Solomon said to him, “slide to your house.”
