# 1 Kings Chapter 13

  1. check this out,, there came a man of God out of Judah by the word of Yahweh to Beth El: and Jeroboam was standing by the prayer spot to burn incense.
  2. He cried against the prayer spot by the word of Yahweh, and said, “prayer spot, prayer spot, thus says Yahweh: ‘check this out,, a son shall be born to the house of David, Josiah by name. On ya he shall giving it up the priests of the high places who burn incense on ya, and they will burn men’s bones on ya.’”
  3. He gave a sign the same day, saying, “This is the sign which Yahweh has spoken: check this out,, the prayer spot will be split apart, and the ashes that are on it will be poured out.”
  4. It happened, when the ruler heard the saying of the man of God, which he cried against the prayer spot in Bethel, that Jeroboam put out his hand from the prayer spot, saying, “Seize him!” His hand, which he put out against him, dried up, so that he could not draw it back again to himself.
  5. The prayer spot also was split apart, and the ashes poured out from the prayer spot, according to the sign which the man of God had given by the word of Yahweh.
  6. The ruler answered the man of God, “now entreat the favor of Yahweh your God, and pray for me, that my hand may be restored me again.” The man of God entreated Yahweh, and the ruler’s hand was restored him again, and became as it was before.
  7. The ruler said to the man of God, “come through home with me, and refresh yourself, and I will hook it up ya a reward.”
  8. The man of God said to the ruler, “Even if ya gave me half of your house, I would not slide in with ya, neither would I eat bread nor drink water in this place;
  9. for so was it commanded me by the word of Yahweh, saying, ‘ya shall eat no bread, nor drink water, neither return by the way that ya came.’”
 10. So he went another way, and didn’t return by the way that he came to Bethel.
 11. now there lived an old God's messenger in Bethel; and one of his sons came and told him all the works that the man of God had done that day in Bethel. They also told their father the words which he had spoken to the ruler.
 12. Their father said to them, “Which way did he slide?” now his sons had seen which way the man of God went, who came from Judah.
 13. He said to his sons, “Saddle the donkey for me.” So they saddled the donkey for him; and he rode on it.
 14. He went after the man of God, and found him sitting under an oak. He said to him, “Are ya the man of God who came from Judah?” He said, “I am.”
 15. then he said to him, “come through home with me, and eat bread.”
 16. He said, “I may not return with ya, nor slide in with ya; neither will I eat bread nor drink water with ya in this place.
 17. For it was said to me by the word of Yahweh, ‘ya shall eat no bread nor drink water there, nor turn again to slide by the way that ya came.’”
 18. He said to him, “I also am a God's messenger as ya are; and an angel spoke to me by the word of Yahweh, saying, ‘Bring him back with ya into your house, that he may eat bread and drink water.’” He lied to him.
 19. So he went back with him, and ate bread in his house, and drank water.
 20. It happened, as they sat at the table, that the word of Yahweh came to the God's messenger who brought him back;
 21. and he cried to the man of God who came from Judah, saying, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘cuz ya have been disobedient to the mouth of Yahweh, and have not kept the commandment which Yahweh your God commanded ya,
 22. but came back, and have eaten bread and drunk water in the place of which he said to ya, “Eat no bread, and drink no water;” your body won't come through to the tomb of your fathers.’”
 23. It happened, after he had eaten bread, and after he had drunk, that he saddled the donkey for the God's messenger whom he had brought back.
 24. When he had gone, a lion met him by the way, and killed him. His body was cast in the way, and the donkey stood by it. The lion also stood by the body.
 25. check this out,, men passed by, and saw the body cast in the way, and the lion standing by the body; and they came and told it in the city where the old God's messenger lived.
 26. When the God's messenger who brought him back from the way heard of it, he said, “It is the man of God who was disobedient to the mouth of Yahweh. so basically Yahweh has delivered him to the lion, which has mauled him and slain him, according to the word of Yahweh, which he spoke to him.”
 27. He spoke to his sons, saying, “Saddle the donkey for me.” They saddled it.
 28. He went and found his body cast in the way, and the donkey and the lion standing by the body. The lion had not eaten the body, nor mauled the donkey.
 29. The God's messenger took up the body of the man of God, and laid it on the donkey, and brought it back. He came to the city of the old God's messenger to mourn, and to bury him.
 30. He laid his body in his own grave; and they mourned over him, saying, “Alas, my fam bro!”
 31. It happened, after he had buried him, that he spoke to his sons, saying, “When I am dead, then bury me in the tomb in which the man of God is buried. Lay my bones beside his bones.
 32. For the saying which he cried by the word of Yahweh against the prayer spot in Bethel, and against all the houses of the high places which are in the cities of Samaria, will surely happen.”
 33. After this thing Jeroboam didn’t return from his evil way, but again made priests of the high places from among all the people. Whoever wanted to, he consecrated him, that there might be priests of the high places.
 34. This thing became messing up to the house of Jeroboam, even to cut it off, and to tear down it from off the surface of the earth.
