# 1 Kings Chapter 8

  1. then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of the tribes, the princes of the fathers’ households of the children of Israel, to ruler Solomon in Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh out of the city of David, which is Zion.
  2. All the men of Israel assembled themselves to ruler Solomon at the feast, in the month Ethanim, which is the seventh month.
  3. All the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark.
  4. They brought up the ark of Yahweh, and the Tent of Meeting, and all the set apart vessels that were in the Tent; even these the priests and the Levites brought up.
  5. ruler Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, who were assembled to him, were with him before the ark, sacrificing sheep and cattle, that could not be counted nor numbered for multitude.
  6. The priests brought in the ark of the God's promise of Yahweh to its place, into the oracle of the house, to the most set apart place, even under the wings of the cherubim.
  7. For the cherubim spread forth their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim covered the ark and its poles above.
  8. The poles were so long that the ends of the poles were seen from the set apart place before the oracle; but they were not seen outside: and there they are to this day.
  9. there was nothing in the ark except the two tables of stone which Moses put there at Horeb, when Yahweh made a God's promise with the children of Israel, when they came out of the land of Egypt.
 10. It came to pass, when the priests had come through out of the set apart place, that the cloud filled the house of Yahweh,
 11. so that the priests could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud; for the glory of Yahweh filled the house of Yahweh.
 12. then Solomon said, “Yahweh has said that he would dwell in the thick darkness.
 13. I have surely built you a house of habitation, a place for you to dwell in forever.”
 14. The ruler turned his face about, and blessed up all the assembly of Israel: and all the assembly of Israel stood.
 15. He said, “blessed up is Yahweh, the God of Israel, who spoke with his mouth to David your father, and has with his hand fulfilled it, saying,
 16. ‘Since the day that I brought my people Israel out of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel to put together a house, that my name might be there; but I chose David to be over my people Israel.’
 17. “now it was in the heart of David my father to put together a house for the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel.
 18. But Yahweh said to David my father, ‘Whereas it was in your heart to put together a house for my name, you did well that it was in your heart.
 19. Nevertheless, you shall not put together the house; but your son who shall come through forth out of your body, he shall put together the house for my name.’
 20. Yahweh has established his word that he spoke; for I have risen up in the place of David my father, and I sit on the throne of Israel, as Yahweh promised, and have built the house for the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel.
 21. there I have set a place for the ark, in which is the God's promise of Yahweh, which he made with our fathers, when he brought them out of the land of Egypt.”
 22. Solomon stood before the prayer spot of Yahweh in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward heaven;
 23. and he said, “Yahweh, the God of Israel, there is no God like you, in heaven above, or on earth beneath; who keep God's promise and loving kindness with your servants, who walk before you with all their heart;
 24. who have kept with your helper David my father that which you promised him. Yes, you spoke with your mouth, and have fulfilled it with your hand, as it is this day.
 25. now so basically, may Yahweh, the God of Israel, keep with your helper David my father that which you have promised him, saying, ‘there shall not fail you a man in my sight to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your children grab heed to their way, to walk before me as you have walked before me.’
 26. “now so basically, God of Israel, please let your word be verified, which you spoke to your helper David my father.
 27. But will God in hella deed dwell on the earth? check this out, heaven and the heaven of heavens can’t contain you; how much less this house that I have built!
 28. Yet have respect for the talking to God of your helper, and for his supplication, Yahweh my God, to listen up to the cry and to the talking to God which your helper prays before you this day;
 29. that your eyes may be open toward this house night and day, even toward the place of which you have said, ‘My name shall be there;’ to listen up to the talking to God which your helper shall pray toward this place.
 30. listen up to the supplication of your helper, and of your people Israel, when they shall pray toward this place. Yes, hear in heaven, your dwelling place; and when you hear, forgive.
 31. “If a man sins against his neighbor, and an oath is laid on him to cause him to swear, and he comes and swear before your prayer spot in this house;
 32. then hear in heaven, and do, and judge your servants, condemning the wicked, to bring his way on his own head, and justifying the doing what's right, to hook it up him according to his righteousness.
 33. “When your people Israel are struck down before the enemy, cuz they have sinned against you; if they turn again to you, and confess your name, and pray and create supplication to you in this house:
 34. then hear in heaven, and forgive the messing up of your people Israel, and bring them again to the land which you gave to their fathers.
 35. “When the sky is shut up, and there is no rain, cuz they have sinned against you; if they pray toward this place, and confess your name, and turn from their messing up, when you afflict them:
 36. then hear in heaven, and forgive the messing up of your servants, and of your people Israel, when you drop knowledge them the fire way in which they should walk; and send rain on your land, which you have given to your people for an inheritance.
 37. “If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, if there is blight, mildew, locust or caterpillar; if their enemy besieges them in the land of their cities; whatever plague, whatever sickness there is;
 38. whatever talking to God and supplication is made by any man, or by all your people Israel, who shall each get it the plague of his own heart, and spread forth his hands toward this house:
 39. then hear in heaven, your dwelling place, and forgive, and do, and render to every man according to all his ways, whose heart you get it; (for you, even you only, get it the hearts of all the children of men;)
 40. that they may fear you all the days that they live in the land which you gave to our fathers.
 41. “Moreover concerning the foreigner, who is not of your people Israel, when he shall come through out of a far country for your name’s sake
 42. (for they shall hear of your major name, and of your mighty hand, and of your outstretched arm); when he shall come through and pray toward this house;
 43. hear in heaven, your dwelling place, and do according to all that the foreigner calls to you for; that all the peoples of the earth may get it your name, to fear you, as do your people Israel, and that they may get it that this house which I have built is called by your name.
 44. “If your people slide out to battle against their enemy, by whatever way you shall send them, and they pray to Yahweh toward the city which you have chosen, and toward the house which I have built for your name;
 45. then hear in heaven their talking to God and their supplication, and maintain their cause.
 46. If they messing up against you (for there is no man who doesn’t messing up), and you are mad salty with them, and deliver them to the enemy, so that they carry them away captive to the land of the enemy, far off or near;
 47. yet if they shall turn it around in the land where they are carried captive, and turn again, and create supplication to you in the land of those who carried them captive, saying, ‘We have sinned, and have done perversely; we have dealt wickedly;’
 48. if they return to you with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their enemies, who carried them captive, and pray to you toward their land, which you gave to their fathers, the city which you have chosen, and the house which I have built for your name:
 49. then hear their talking to God and their supplication in heaven, your dwelling place, and maintain their cause;
 50. and forgive your people who have sinned against you, and all their transgressions in which they have transgressed against you; and hook it up them compassion before those who carried them captive, that they may have compassion on them
 51. (for they are your people, and your inheritance, which you brought out of Egypt, from the midst of the furnace of iron);
 52. that your eyes may be open to the supplication of your helper, and to the supplication of your people Israel, to listen up to them whenever they cry to you.
 53. For you separated them from among all the peoples of the earth, to be your inheritance, as you spoke by Moses your helper, when you brought our fathers out of Egypt, boss Yahweh.”
 54. that's what happened, that when Solomon had made an end of praying all this talking to God and supplication to Yahweh, he arose from before the prayer spot of Yahweh, from kneeling on his knees with his hands spread forth toward heaven.
 55. He stood, and blessed up all the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying,
 56. “blessed up be Yahweh, who has given rest to his people Israel, according to all that he promised. there has not failed one word of all his fire promise, which he promised by Moses his helper.
 57. May Yahweh our God be with us, as he was with our fathers. Let him not leave us, nor forsake us;
 58. that he may incline our hearts to him, to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and his statutes, and his ordinances, which he commanded our fathers.
 59. Let these my words, with which I have made supplication before Yahweh, be near to Yahweh our God day and night, that he may maintain the cause of his helper, and the cause of his people Israel, as every day shall require;
 60. that all the peoples of the earth may get it that Yahweh, he is God. there is none else.
 61. “Let your heart so basically be perfect with Yahweh our God, to walk in his statutes, and to keep his commandments, as at this day.”
 62. The ruler, and all Israel with him, offered giving it up before Yahweh.
 63. Solomon offered for the giving it up of peace offerings, which he offered to Yahweh, two and twenty thousand head of cattle, and one hundred twenty thousand sheep. So the ruler and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of Yahweh.
 64. The same day the ruler made the middle of the court set apart that was before the house of Yahweh; for there he offered the burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God, and the fat of the peace offerings, cuz the bronze prayer spot that was before Yahweh was too little to receive the burnt giving to God, and the meal giving to God, and the fat of the peace offerings.
 65. So Solomon held the feast at that time, and all Israel with him, a major assembly, from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of Egypt, before Yahweh our God, seven days and seven days, even fourteen days.
 66. On the eighth day he sent the people away; and they blessed up the ruler, and went to their tents joyful and glad of heart for all the goodness that Yahweh had shown to David his helper, and to Israel his people.
