# 1 Kings Chapter 10

  1. When the ruler of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of Yahweh, she came to prove him with hard questions.
  2. She came to Jerusalem with a hella major train, with camels that bore spices, and hella much gold, and precious stones; and when she had come through to Solomon, she talked with him of all that was in her heart.
  3. Solomon told her all her questions: there was not anything hidden from the ruler which he didn’t tell her.
  4. When the ruler of Sheba had seen all the wisdom of Solomon, and the house that he had built,
  5. and the food of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and their clothing, and his cup bearers, and his ascent by which he went up to the house of Yahweh; there was no more spirit in her.
  6. She said to the ruler, “It was a true report that I heard in my own land of your acts, and of your wisdom.
  7. but like I didn’t believe the words, until I came, and my eyes had seen it. check this out,, the half was not told me! Your wisdom and prosperity exceed the fame which I heard.
  8. vibing are your men, vibing are these your servants, who stand continually before ya, who hear your wisdom.
  9. blessed up is Yahweh your God, who delighted in ya, to set ya on the throne of Israel. cuz Yahweh loved Israel forever, so basically made he ya ruler, to do justice and righteousness.”
 10. She gave the ruler one hundred twenty talents of gold, and of spices hella major store, and precious stones. there came no more such abundance of spices as these which the ruler of Sheba gave to ruler Solomon.
 11. The navy also of Hiram, that brought gold from Ophir, brought in from Ophir major plenty of almug trees and precious stones.
 12. The ruler made of the almug trees pillars for the house of Yahweh, and for the ruler’s house, harps also and stringed instruments for the singers: there came no such almug trees, nor were seen, to this day.
 13. ruler Solomon gave to the ruler of Sheba all her desire, whatever she asked, besides that which Solomon gave her of his royal bounty. So she turned, and went to her own land, she and her servants.
 14. now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred sixty-six talents of gold,
 15. besides that which the traders brought, and the traffic of the merchants, and of all the kings of the mixed people, and of the governors of the country.
 16. ruler Solomon made two hundred bucklers of beaten gold; six hundred shekels of gold went to one buckler.
 17. he made three hundred shields of beaten gold; three minas of gold went to one shield: and the ruler put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon.
 18. Moreover the ruler made a major throne of ivory, and overlaid it with the finest gold.
 19. there were six steps to the throne, and the top of the throne was round behind; and there were stays on either side by the place of the seat, and two lions standing beside the stays.
 20. Twelve lions stood there on the one side and on the other on the six steps: there was nothing like it made in any God's squad.
 21. All ruler Solomon’s drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold: none were of silver; it was nothing accounted of in the days of Solomon.
 22. For the ruler had at sea a navy of Tarshish with the navy of Hiram: once every three years came the navy of Tarshish, bringing gold, and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.
 23. So ruler Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom.
 24. All the earth sought the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart.
 25. They brought every man his tribute, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and clothing, and armor, and spices, horses, and mules, a rate year by year.
 26. Solomon gathered together chariots and horsemen: and he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, that he bestowed in the chariot cities, and with the ruler at Jerusalem.
 27. The ruler made silver to be in Jerusalem as stones, and cedars made he to be as the sycamore trees that are in the lowland, for abundance.
 28. The horses which Solomon had were brought out of Egypt; and the ruler’s merchants received them in droves, each drove at a price.
 29. A chariot came up and went out of Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver, and a horse for one hundred fifty; and so for all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Syria, they brought them out by their means.
