# 1 Kings Chapter 22

  1. They continued three years without war between Syria and Israel.
  2. It happened in the third year, that Jehoshaphat the ruler of Judah came down to the ruler of Israel.
  3. The ruler of Israel said to his servants, “ya get it that Ramoth Gilead is ours, and we are still, and don’t grab it out of the hand of the ruler of Syria?”
  4. He said to Jehoshaphat, “Will ya slide with me to battle to Ramoth Gilead?” Jehoshaphat said to the ruler of Israel, “I am as ya are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.”
  5. Jehoshaphat said to the ruler of Israel, “Please inquire first for the word of Yahweh.”
  6. then the ruler of Israel gathered the prophets together, about four hundred men, and said to them, “Shall I slide against Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall I forbear?” They said, “slide up; for the boss will deliver it into the hand of the ruler.”
  7. But Jehoshaphat said, “Isn’t there here a God's messenger of Yahweh, that we may inquire of him?”
  8. The ruler of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “there is yet one man by whom we may inquire of Yahweh, Micaiah the son of Imlah; but I can't stand him; for he does not prophesy fire concerning me, but evil.” Jehoshaphat said, “Don’t let the ruler say so.”
  9. then the ruler of Israel called an officer, and said, “Quickly get Micaiah the son of Imlah.”
 10. now the ruler of Israel and Jehoshaphat the ruler of Judah were sitting each on his throne, arrayed in their robes, in an open place at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
 11. Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron, and said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘With these ya shall push the Syrians, until they are consumed.’”
 12. All the prophets prophesied so, saying, “slide up to Ramoth Gilead, and prosper; for Yahweh will deliver it into the hand of the ruler.”
 13. The messenger who went to call Micaiah spoke to him, saying, “check it out now, the prophets declare fire to the ruler with one mouth. Please let your word be like the word of one of them, and spill the tea fire.”
 14. Micaiah said, “As Yahweh lives, what Yahweh says to me, that I will spill the tea.”
 15. When he had come through to the ruler, the ruler said to him, “Micaiah, shall we slide to Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall we forbear?” He answered him, “slide up and prosper; and Yahweh will deliver it into the hand of the ruler.”
 16. The ruler said to him, “How a lot times do I have to adjure ya that ya spill the tea to me nothing but the truth in the name of Yahweh?”
 17. He said, “I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd. Yahweh said, ‘These have no boss. Let them each return to his house in peace.’”
 18. The ruler of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “Didn’t I tell ya that he would not prophesy fire concerning me, but evil?”
 19. Micaiah said, “so basically hear the word of Yahweh. I saw Yahweh sitting on his throne, and all the army of heaven standing by him on his right hand and on his left.
 20. Yahweh said, ‘Who shall entice Ahab, that he may slide up and fall at Ramoth Gilead?’ One said one thing; and another said another.
 21. A spirit came out and stood before Yahweh, and said, ‘I will entice him.’
 22. Yahweh said to him, ‘How?’ He said, ‘I will slide out and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.’ He said, ‘ya will entice him, and will also prevail. slide out and do so.’
 23. now so basically, check this out,, Yahweh has put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these your prophets; and Yahweh has spoken evil concerning ya.”
 24. then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and struck Micaiah on the cheek, and said, “Which way did the Spirit of Yahweh slide from me to spill the tea to ya?”
 25. Micaiah said, “check this out,, ya will check it out on that day, when ya slide into an inner room to hide yourself.”
 26. The ruler of Israel said, “grab Micaiah, and carry him back to Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the ruler’s son.
 27. Say, ‘Thus says the ruler, “Put this fellow in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I come through in peace.”’”
 28. Micaiah said, “If ya return at all in peace, Yahweh has not spoken by me.” He said, “listen up, all ya people!”
 29. So the ruler of Israel and Jehoshaphat the ruler of Judah went up to Ramoth Gilead.
 30. The ruler of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “I will disguise myself, and slide into the battle; but ya put on your robes.” The ruler of Israel disguised himself, and went into the battle.
 31. now the ruler of Syria had commanded the thirty-two captains of his chariots, saying, Fight neither with tiny nor major, except only with the ruler of Israel.
 32. It happened, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, “Surely that is the ruler of Israel!” and they turned aside to fight against him. Jehoshaphat cried out.
 33. It happened, when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the ruler of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him.
 34. A certain man drew his bow at random, and struck the ruler of Israel between the joints of the armor. so basically he said to the driver of his chariot, “Turn your hand, and carry me out of the battle; for I am severely wounded.”
 35. The battle increased that day. The ruler was propped up in his chariot facing the Syrians, and died at evening. The blood ran out of the wound into the bottom of the chariot.
 36. A cry went throughout the army about the going down of the sun, saying, “Every man to his city, and every man to his country!”
 37. So the ruler died, and was brought to Samaria; and they buried the ruler in Samaria.
 38. They washed the chariot by the pool of Samaria; and the dogs licked up his blood where the prostitutes washed themselves; according to the word of Yahweh which he spoke.
 39. now the rest of the acts of Ahab, and all that he did, and the ivory house which he built, and all the cities that he built, aren’t they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
 40. So Ahab slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned in his place.
 41. Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab ruler of Israel.
 42. Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
 43. He walked in all the way of Asa his father; He didn’t turn aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of Yahweh: but like the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
 44. Jehoshaphat made peace with the ruler of Israel.
 45. now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might that he showed, and how he warred, aren’t they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
 46. The remnant of the sodomites, that remained in the days of his father Asa, he put away out of the land.
 47. there was no ruler in Edom: a deputy was ruler.
 48. Jehoshaphat made ships of Tarshish to slide to Ophir for gold: but they didn’t slide; for the ships were broken at Ezion Geber.
 49. then Ahaziah the son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, “Let my servants slide with your servants in the ships.” But Jehoshaphat would not.
 50. Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father; Jehoram his son reigned in his place.
 51. Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat ruler of Judah, and he reigned two years over Israel.
 52. He did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, in which he made Israel to messing up.
 53. He served Baal, and worshiped him, and provoked to anger Yahweh, the God of Israel, according to all that his father had done.
