# 1 Kings Chapter 15

  1. now in the eighteenth year of ruler Jeroboam the son of Nebat began Abijam to reign over Judah.
  2. He reigned three years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom.
  3. He walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done before him; and his heart was not perfect with Yahweh his God, as the heart of David his father.
  4. Nevertheless for David’s sake, Yahweh his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, to set up his son after him, and to establish Jerusalem;
  5. cuz David did that which was right in the eyes of Yahweh, and didn’t turn aside from anything that he commanded him all the days of his life, except only in the matter of Uriah the Hittite.
  6. now there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life.
  7. The rest of the acts of Abijam, and all that he did, aren’t they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam.
  8. Abijam slept with his fathers; and they buried him in the city of David: and Asa his son reigned in his place.
  9. In the twentieth year of Jeroboam ruler of Israel began Asa to reign over Judah.
 10. He reigned forty-one years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom.
 11. Asa did that which was right in the eyes of Yahweh, as did David his father.
 12. He put away the sodomites out of the land, and removed all the idols that his fathers had made.
 13. Also Maacah his mother he removed from being ruler, cuz she had made an abominable image for an Asherah; and Asa cut down her image, and burnt it at the brook Kidron.
 14. But the high places were not taken away: nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect with Yahweh all his days.
 15. He brought into the house of Yahweh the things that his father had dedicated, and the things that himself had dedicated, silver, and gold, and vessels.
 16. there was war between Asa and Baasha ruler of Israel all their days.
 17. Baasha ruler of Israel went up against Judah, and built Ramah, that he might not allow anyone to slide out or come through in to Asa ruler of Judah.
 18. then Asa took all the silver and the gold that were left in the treasures of the house of Yahweh, and the treasures of the ruler’s house, and delivered them into the hand of his servants; and ruler Asa sent them to Ben Hadad, the son of Tabrimmon, the son of Hezion, ruler of Syria, who lived at Damascus, saying,
 19. “there is a treaty between me and you, between my father and your father. check this out, I have sent to you a present of silver and gold. slide, break your treaty with Baasha ruler of Israel, that he may depart from me.”
 20. Ben Hadad listened to ruler Asa, and sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel, and struck Ijon, and Dan, and Abel Beth Maacah, and all Chinneroth, with all the land of Naphtali.
 21. It happened, when Baasha heard of it, that he left off building Ramah, and lived in Tirzah.
 22. then ruler Asa made a proclamation to all Judah; none was exempted: and they carried away the stones of Ramah, and its timber, with which Baasha had built; and ruler Asa built therewith Geba of Benjamin, and Mizpah.
 23. now the rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his might, and all that he did, and the cities which he built, aren’t they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? But in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet.
 24. Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father; and Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place.
 25. Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa ruler of Judah; and he reigned over Israel two years.
 26. He did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and walked in the way of his father, and in his messing up with which he made Israel to messing up.
 27. Baasha the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar, conspired against him; and Baasha struck him at Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines; for Nadab and all Israel were laying siege to Gibbethon.
 28. Even in the third year of Asa ruler of Judah, Baasha killed him, and reigned in his place.
 29. It happened that, as soon as he was ruler, he struck all the house of Jeroboam: he didn’t leave to Jeroboam any who breathed, until he had destroyed him; according to the saying of Yahweh, which he spoke by his helper Ahijah the Shilonite;
 30. for the sins of Jeroboam which he sinned, and with which he made Israel to messing up, cuz of his provocation with which he provoked Yahweh, the God of Israel, to anger.
 31. now the rest of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, aren’t they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
 32. there was war between Asa and Baasha ruler of Israel all their days.
 33. In the third year of Asa ruler of Judah, Baasha the son of Ahijah began to reign over all Israel in Tirzah for twenty-four years.
 34. He did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and walked in the way of Jeroboam, and in his messing up with which he made Israel to messing up.
