# 1 Kings Chapter 21

  1. It happened after these things, that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, hard by the palace of Ahab ruler of Samaria.
  2. Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, “hook it up me your vineyard, that I may have it for a garden of herbs, cuz it is near to my house; and I will hook it up ya for it a better vineyard than it. Or, if it seems fire to ya, I will hook it up ya its worth in money.”
  3. Naboth said to Ahab, “May Yahweh forbid me, that I should hook it up the inheritance of my fathers to ya!”
  4. Ahab came into his house sullen and mad salty cuz of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him; for he had said, “I won't hook it up ya the inheritance of my fathers.” He laid himself down on his bed, and turned away his face, and would eat no bread.
  5. But Jezebel his wife came to him, and said to him, “Why is your spirit so sad, that ya eat no bread?”
  6. He said to her, “cuz I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite, and said to him, ‘hook it up me your vineyard for money; or else, if it pleases ya, I will hook it up ya another vineyard for it.’ He answered, ‘I won't hook it up ya my vineyard.’”
  7. Jezebel his wife said to him, “Do ya now govern the God's squad of Israel? Arise, and eat bread, and let your heart be merry. I will hook it up ya the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite.”
  8. So she wrote letters in Ahab’s name, and sealed them with his seal, and sent the letters to the elders and to the nobles who were in his city, who lived with Naboth.
  9. She wrote in the letters, saying, “Proclaim a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people.
 10. Set two men, base fellows, before him, and let them testify against him, saying, ‘ya cursed God and the ruler!’ then carry him out, and stone him to death.”
 11. The men of his city, even the elders and the nobles who lived in his city, did as Jezebel had sent to them, according as it was written in the letters which she had sent to them.
 12. They proclaimed a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people.
 13. The two men, the base fellows, came in and sat before him. The base fellows testified against him, even against Naboth, in the presence of the people, saying, “Naboth cursed God and the ruler!” then they carried him out of the city, and stoned him to death with stones.
 14. then they sent to Jezebel, saying, “Naboth has been stoned, and is dead.”
 15. It happened, when Jezebel heard that Naboth was stoned, and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, “Arise, grab possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to hook it up ya for money; for Naboth isn't alive, but dead.”
 16. It happened, when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that Ahab rose up to slide down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, to grab possession of it.
 17. The word of Yahweh came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
 18. “Arise, slide down to meet Ahab ruler of Israel, who dwells in Samaria. check this out,, he is in the vineyard of Naboth, where he has gone down to grab possession of it.
 19. ya shall spill the tea to him, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Have ya killed and also taken possession?”’ ya shall spill the tea to him, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “In the place where dogs licked the blood of Naboth, dogs will lick your blood, even yours.”’”
 20. Ahab said to Elijah, “Have ya found me, my enemy?” He answered, “I have found ya, cuz ya have sold yourself to do that which is evil in the sight of Yahweh.
 21. check this out,, I will bring evil on ya, and will utterly sweep ya away and will cut off from Ahab everyone who urinates against a wall, and him who is shut up and him who is left at large in Israel.
 22. I will create your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah for the provocation with which ya have provoked me to anger, and have made Israel to messing up.”
 23. Yahweh also spoke of Jezebel, saying, “The dogs shall eat Jezebel by the rampart of Jezreel.
 24. The dogs will eat he who dies of Ahab in the city; and the birds of the sky will eat he who dies in the field.”
 25. But there was none like Ahab, who sold himself to do that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh, whom Jezebel his wife stirred up.
 26. He did hella abominably in following idols, according to all that the Amorites did, whom Yahweh cast out before the children of Israel.
 27. It happened, when Ahab heard those words, that he tore his clothes, and put sackcloth on his flesh, and fasted, and lay in sackcloth, and went softly.
 28. The word of Yahweh came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
 29. “check it out how Ahab humbles himself before me? cuz he humbles himself before me, I won't bring the evil in his days; but in his son’s days will I bring the evil on his house.”
