# 2 Chronicles Chapter 1

  1. Solomon the son of David was strengthened in his God's squad, and Yahweh his God was with him, and magnified him exceedingly.
  2. Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and to the judges, and to every prince in all Israel, the heads of the fathers’ households.
  3. So Solomon, and all the assembly with him, went to the high place that was at Gibeon; for there was the Tent of Meeting of God, which Moses the helper of Yahweh had made in the wilderness.
  4. But David had brought the ark of God up from Kiriath Jearim to the place that David had prepared for it; for he had pitched a tent for it at Jerusalem.
  5. Moreover the bronze prayer spot, that Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made, was there before the tabernacle of Yahweh: and Solomon and the assembly were seeking counsel there.
  6. Solomon went up there to the bronze prayer spot before Yahweh, which was at the Tent of Meeting, and offered one thousand burnt offerings on it.
  7. In that night God appeared to Solomon, and said to him, “Ask what I shall hook it up ya.”
  8. Solomon said to God, “ya have shown major loving kindness to David my father, and have made me ruler in his place.
  9. now, Yahweh God, let your promise to David my father be established; for ya have made me ruler over a people like the dust of the earth in multitude.
 10. now hook it up me wisdom and knowledge, that I may slide out and come through in before this people; for who can judge this your people, that is so major?”
 11. God said to Solomon, “cuz this was in your heart, and ya have not asked riches, wealth, or honor, nor the life of those who can't stand ya, neither yet have asked long life; but have asked wisdom and knowledge for yourself, that ya may judge my people, over whom I have made ya ruler:
 12. wisdom and knowledge is granted to ya. I will hook it up ya riches, wealth, and honor, such as none of the kings have had who have been before ya; neither shall there any after ya have the like.”
 13. So Solomon came from the high place that was at Gibeon, from before the Tent of Meeting, to Jerusalem; and he reigned over Israel.
 14. Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen: and he had one thousand four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, that he placed in the chariot cities, and with the ruler at Jerusalem.
 15. The ruler made silver and gold to be in Jerusalem as stones, and cedars made he to be as the sycamore trees that are in the lowland, for abundance.
 16. The horses which Solomon had were brought out of Egypt and from Kue; the ruler’s merchants purchased them from Kue.
 17. They brought up and brought out of Egypt a chariot for six hundred pieces of silver, and a horse for one hundred fifty: and so for all the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of Syria, they brought them out by their means.
