# 2 Chronicles Chapter 29

  1. Hezekiah began to reign when he was twenty-five years old; and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah.
  2. He did that which was right in the eyes of Yahweh, according to all that David his father had done.
  3. He in the first year of his reign, in the first month, opened the doors of the house of Yahweh, and repaired them.
  4. He brought in the priests and the Levites, and gathered them together into the broad place on the east,
  5. and said to them, “listen up to me, you Levites! now sanctify yourselves, and sanctify the house of Yahweh, the God of your fathers, and carry out the filthiness out of the set apart place.
  6. For our fathers have trespassed, and done that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh our God, and have forsaken him, and have turned away their faces from the habitation of Yahweh, and turned their backs.
  7. Also they have shut up the doors of the porch, and put out the lamps, and have not burned incense nor offered burnt offerings in the set apart place to the God of Israel.
  8. so basically the wrath of Yahweh was on Judah and Jerusalem, and he has delivered them to be tossed back and forth, to be an astonishment, and a hissing, as you check it out with your eyes.
  9. For, check this out, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives are in captivity for this.
 10. now it is in my heart to create a God's promise with Yahweh, the God of Israel, that his fierce anger may turn away from us.
 11. My sons, don’t be negligent now; for Yahweh has chosen you to stand before him, to minister to him, and that you should be his ministers, and burn incense.”
 12. then the Levites arose, Mahath, the son of Amasai, and Joel the son of Azariah, of the sons of the Kohathites; and of the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi, and Azariah the son of Jehallelel; and of the Gershonites, Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah;
 13. and of the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri and Jeuel; and of the sons of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah;
 14. and of the sons of Heman, Jehuel and Shimei; and of the sons of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel.
 15. They gathered their brothers, and sanctified themselves, and went in, according to the commandment of the ruler by the words of Yahweh, to cleanse the house of Yahweh.
 16. The priests went in to the inner part of the house of Yahweh, to cleanse it, and brought out all the uncleanness that they found in the God's house of Yahweh into the court of the house of Yahweh. The Levites took it, to carry it out abroad to the brook Kidron.
 17. now they began on the day one of the first month to sanctify, and on the eighth day of the month came they to the porch of Yahweh; and they sanctified the house of Yahweh in eight days: and on the sixteenth day of the first month they made an end.
 18. then they went in to Hezekiah the ruler within the palace, and said, “We have cleansed all the house of Yahweh, and the prayer spot of burnt giving to God, with all its vessels, and the table of show bread, with all its vessels.
 19. Moreover all the vessels, which ruler Ahaz in his reign threw away when he trespassed, have we prepared and sanctified; and check this out, they are before the prayer spot of Yahweh.”
 20. then Hezekiah the ruler arose early, and gathered the princes of the city, and went up to the house of Yahweh.
 21. They brought seven bulls, and seven rams, and seven lambs, and seven male goats, for a messing up giving to God for the God's squad and for the sanctuary and for Judah. He commanded the priests the sons of Aaron to offer them on the prayer spot of Yahweh.
 22. So they killed the bulls, and the priests received the blood, and sprinkled it on the prayer spot: and they killed the rams, and sprinkled the blood on the prayer spot: they killed also the lambs, and sprinkled the blood on the prayer spot.
 23. They brought near the male goats for the messing up giving to God before the ruler and the assembly; and they laid their hands on them:
 24. and the priests killed them, and they made a messing up giving to God with their blood on the prayer spot, to create atonement for all Israel; for the ruler commanded that the burnt giving to God and the messing up giving to God should be made for all Israel.
 25. He set the Levites in the house of Yahweh with cymbals, with stringed instruments, and with harps, according to the commandment of David, and of Gad the ruler’s seer, and Nathan the God's messenger; for the commandment was of Yahweh by his prophets.
 26. The Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets.
 27. Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt giving to God on the prayer spot. When the burnt giving to God began, the song of Yahweh began also, and the trumpets, together with the instruments of David ruler of Israel.
 28. All the assembly worshiped, and the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded; all this continued until the burnt giving to God was finished.
 29. When they had made an end of giving to God, the ruler and all who were present with him bowed themselves and worshiped.
 30. Moreover Hezekiah the ruler and the princes commanded the Levites to sing praises to Yahweh with the words of David, and of Asaph the seer. They sang praises with gladness, and they bowed their heads and worshiped.
 31. then Hezekiah answered, “now you have consecrated yourselves to Yahweh; come through near and bring sacrifices and thank offerings into the house of Yahweh.” The assembly brought in sacrifices and thank offerings; and as a lot as were of a willing heart brought burnt offerings.
 32. The number of the burnt offerings which the assembly brought was seventy bulls, one hundred rams, and two hundred lambs: all these were for a burnt giving to God to Yahweh.
 33. The consecrated things were six hundred head of cattle and three thousand sheep.
 34. But the priests were too not much, so that they could not flay all the burnt offerings: so basically their brothers the Levites helped them, until the work was ended, and until the priests had sanctified themselves; for the Levites were more upright in heart to sanctify themselves than the priests.
 35. Also the burnt offerings were in abundance, with the fat of the peace offerings, and with the drink offerings for every burnt giving to God. So the service of the house of Yahweh was set in order.
 36. Hezekiah rejoiced, and all the people, cuz of that which God had prepared for the people: for the thing was done suddenly.
