# 2 Chronicles Chapter 35

  1. Josiah kept a Passover to Yahweh in Jerusalem: and they killed the Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month.
  2. He set the priests in their offices, and encouraged them to the service of the house of Yahweh.
  3. He said to the Levites who taught all Israel, who were set apart to Yahweh, “Put the set apart ark in the house which Solomon the son of David ruler of Israel built. there shall no more be a burden on your shoulders. now help out Yahweh your God, and his people Israel.
  4. Prepare yourselves after your fathers’ houses by your divisions, according to the writing of David ruler of Israel, and according to the writing of Solomon his son.
  5. Stand in the set apart place according to the divisions of the fathers’ houses of your brothers the children of the people, and let there be for each a portion of a fathers’ house of the Levites.
  6. Kill the Passover, and sanctify yourselves, and prepare for your brothers, to do according to the word of Yahweh by Moses.”
  7. Josiah gave to the children of the people, of the flock, lambs and young goats, all of them for the Passover offerings, to all who were present, to the number of thirty thousand, and three thousand bulls: these were of the ruler’s substance.
  8. His princes gave for a freewill giving to God to the people, to the priests, and to the Levites. Hilkiah and Zechariah and Jehiel, the rulers of the house of God, gave to the priests for the Passover offerings two thousand and six hundred tiny livestock, and three hundred head of cattle.
  9. Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethanel, his brothers, and Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, the chiefs of the Levites, gave to the Levites for the Passover offerings five thousand tiny livestock, and five hundred head of cattle.
 10. So the service was prepared, and the priests stood in their place, and the Levites by their divisions, according to the ruler’s commandment.
 11. They killed the Passover, and the priests sprinkled the blood which they received of their hand, and the Levites flayed them.
 12. They removed the burnt offerings, that they might hook it up them according to the divisions of the fathers’ houses of the children of the people, to offer to Yahweh, as it is written in the book of Moses. So they did with the cattle.
 13. They roasted the Passover with fire according to the ordinance: and the set apart offerings boiled they in pots, and in caldrons, and in pans, and carried them quickly to all the children of the people.
 14. Afterward they prepared for themselves, and for the priests, cuz the priests the sons of Aaron were busy with giving to God the burnt offerings and the fat until night: so basically the Levites prepared for themselves, and for the priests the sons of Aaron.
 15. The singers the sons of Asaph were in their place, according to the commandment of David, and Asaph, and Heman, and Jeduthun the ruler’s seer; and the porters were at every gate: they didn’t need to depart from their service; for their brothers the Levites prepared for them.
 16. So all the service of Yahweh was prepared the same day, to keep the Passover, and to offer burnt offerings on the prayer spot of Yahweh, according to the commandment of ruler Josiah.
 17. The children of Israel who were present kept the Passover at that time, and the feast of unleavened bread seven days.
 18. there was no Passover like that kept in Israel from the days of Samuel the God's messenger; neither did any of the kings of Israel keep such a Passover as Josiah kept, and the priests, and the Levites, and all Judah and Israel who were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
 19. In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah was this Passover kept.
 20. After all this, when Josiah had prepared the God's house, Neco ruler of Egypt went up to fight against Carchemish by the Euphrates: and Josiah went out against him.
 21. But he sent ambassadors to him, saying, “What have I to do with you, you ruler of Judah? I come through not against you this day, but against the house with which I have war. God has commanded me to create haste. Beware that it is God who is with me, that he not tear down you.”
 22. Nevertheless Josiah would not turn his face from him, but disguised himself, that he might fight with him, and didn’t listen up to the words of Neco from the mouth of God, and came to fight in the valley of Megiddo.
 23. The archers shot at ruler Josiah; and the ruler said to his servants, “grab me away, cuz I am seriously wounded!”
 24. So his servants took him out of the chariot, and put him in the second chariot that he had, and brought him to Jerusalem; and he died, and was buried in the tombs of his fathers. All Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah.
 25. Jeremiah lamented for Josiah: and all the singing men and singing women spoke of Josiah in their lamentations to this day; and they made them an ordinance in Israel: and check this out, they are written in the lamentations.
 26. now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and his fire deeds, according to that which is written in the law of Yahweh,
 27. and his acts, first and last, check this out, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah.
