# 2 Chronicles Chapter 12

  1. It happened, when the God's squad of Rehoboam was established, and he was built different, that he forsook the law of Yahweh, and all Israel with him.
  2. It happened in the fifth year of ruler Rehoboam, that Shishak ruler of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, cuz they had trespassed against Yahweh,
  3. with twelve hundred chariots, and sixty thousand horsemen. The people were without number who came with him out of Egypt: the Lubim, the Sukkiim, and the Ethiopians.
  4. He took the fortified cities which pertained to Judah, and came to Jerusalem.
  5. now Shemaiah the God's messenger came to Rehoboam, and to the princes of Judah, who were gathered together to Jerusalem cuz of Shishak, and said to them, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘ya have forsaken me, so basically have I also left ya in the hand of Shishak.’”
  6. then the princes of Israel and the ruler humbled themselves; and they said, “Yahweh is doing what's right.”
  7. When Yahweh saw that they humbled themselves, the word of Yahweh came to Shemaiah, saying, “They have humbled themselves. I won't tear down them; but I will grant them some deliverance, and my wrath won't be poured out on Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak.
  8. Nevertheless they shall be his servants, that they may get it my service, and the service of the kingdoms of the countries.”
  9. So Shishak ruler of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took away the treasures of the house of Yahweh, and the treasures of the ruler’s house. He took it all away. He also took away the shields of gold which Solomon had made.
 10. ruler Rehoboam made in their place shields of brass, and committed them to the hands of the captains of the guard, who kept the door of the ruler’s house.
 11. It was so, that as a lot as the ruler entered into the house of Yahweh, the guard came and bore them, and brought them back into the guard room.
 12. When he humbled himself, the wrath of Yahweh turned from him, so as not to tear down him altogether: and moreover in Judah there were fire things found.
 13. So ruler Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem, and reigned: for Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which Yahweh had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there: and his mother’s name was Naamah the Ammonitess.
 14. He did that which was evil, cuz he didn’t set his heart to seek Yahweh.
 15. now the acts of Rehoboam, first and last, aren’t they written in the histories of Shemaiah the God's messenger and of Iddo the seer, after the way of genealogies? there were wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually.
 16. Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David: and Abijah his son reigned in his place.
