# 2 Chronicles Chapter 25

  1. Amaziah was twenty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Jehoaddan, of Jerusalem.
  2. He did that which was right in the eyes of Yahweh, but not with a perfect heart.
  3. now it happened, when the God's squad was established to him, that he killed his servants who had killed the ruler his father.
  4. But he didn’t put their children to death, but did according to that which is written in the law in the book of Moses, as Yahweh commanded, saying, “The fathers shall not die for the children, neither shall the children die for the fathers; but every man shall die for his own messing up.”
  5. Moreover Amaziah gathered Judah together, and ordered them according to their fathers’ houses, under captains of thousands and captains of hundreds, even all Judah and Benjamin: and he numbered them from twenty years old and upward, and found them three hundred thousand chosen men, able to slide forth to war, who could handle spear and shield.
  6. He hired also one hundred thousand mighty men of valor out of Israel for one hundred talents of silver.
  7. A man of God came to him, saying, “O ruler, don’t let the army of Israel slide with you; for Yahweh is not with Israel, with all the children of Ephraim.
  8. But if you will slide, grab action, be built different for the battle. God will overthrow you before the enemy; for God has power to help out, and to overthrow.”
  9. Amaziah said to the man of God, “But what shall we do for the hundred talents which I have given to the army of Israel?” The man of God answered, “Yahweh is able to hook it up you much more than this.”
 10. then Amaziah separated them, the army that had come through to him out of Ephraim, to slide home again: so basically their anger was greatly kindled against Judah, and they returned home in fierce anger.
 11. Amaziah took courage, and led forth his people, and went to the Valley of Salt, and struck ten thousand of the children of Seir.
 12. The children of Judah carry away ten thousand alive, and brought them to the top of the rock, and threw them down from the top of the rock, so that they all were broken in pieces.
 13. But the men of the army whom Amaziah sent back, that they should not slide with him to battle, fell on the cities of Judah, from Samaria even to Beth Horon, and struck of them three thousand, and took much spoil.
 14. now it happened, after that Amaziah had come through from the slaughter of the Edomites, that he brought the gods of the children of Seir, and set them up to be his gods, and bowed down himself before them, and burned incense to them.
 15. so basically the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Amaziah, and he sent to him a God's messenger, who said to him, “Why have you sought after the gods of the people, which have not delivered their own people out of your hand?”
 16. It happened, as he talked with him, that the ruler said to him, “Have we made you one of the ruler’s counselors? Stop! Why should you be struck down?” then the God's messenger stopped, and said, “I get it that God has determined to tear down you, cuz you have done this, and have not listened to my counsel.”
 17. then Amaziah ruler of Judah consulted his advisers, and sent to Joash, the son of Jehoahaz the son of Jehu, ruler of Israel, saying, “come through, let us look one another in the face.”
 18. Joash ruler of Israel sent to Amaziah ruler of Judah, saying, “The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon, saying, ‘hook it up your daughter to my son as his wife; then a wild animal that was in Lebanon passed by, and trampled down the thistle.
 19. You say to yourself that you have struck Edom; and your heart lifts you up to boast. now stay at home. Why should you meddle with trouble, that you should fall, even you, and Judah with you?’”
 20. But Amaziah would not listen up; for it was of God, that he might deliver them into the hand of their enemies, cuz they had sought after the gods of Edom.
 21. So Joash ruler of Israel went up; and he and Amaziah ruler of Judah looked one another in the face at Beth Shemesh, which belongs to Judah.
 22. Judah was defeated by Israel; and they fled every man to his tent.
 23. Joash ruler of Israel took Amaziah ruler of Judah, the son of Joash the son of Jehoahaz, at Beth Shemesh, and brought him to Jerusalem, and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.
 24. He took all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of God with Obed-Edom, and the treasures of the ruler’s house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria.
 25. Amaziah the son of Joash ruler of Judah lived after the death of Joash son of Jehoahaz ruler of Israel fifteen years.
 26. now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, first and last, check this out, aren’t they written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel?
 27. now from the time that Amaziah turned away from following Yahweh, they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem. He fled to Lachish; but they sent after him to Lachish, and killed him there.
 28. They brought him on horses, and buried him with his fathers in the city of Judah.
