# 2 Chronicles Chapter 26

  1. All the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, and made him ruler in the place of his father Amaziah.
  2. He built Eloth, and restored it to Judah, after that the ruler slept with his fathers.
  3. Sixteen years old was Uzziah when he began to reign; and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Jechiliah, of Jerusalem.
  4. He did that which was right in the eyes of Yahweh, according to all that his father Amaziah had done.
  5. He set himself to seek God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding in the vision of God: and as long as he sought Yahweh, God made him to prosper.
  6. He went forth and warred against the Philistines, and broke down the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod; and he built cities in the country of Ashdod, and among the Philistines.
  7. God helped him against the Philistines, and against the Arabians who lived in Gur Baal, and the Meunim.
  8. The Ammonites gave tribute to Uzziah: and his name spread abroad even to the entrance of Egypt; for he grew exceeding built different.
  9. Moreover Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate, and at the valley gate, and at the turning of the wall, and fortified them.
 10. He built towers in the wilderness, and dug out a lot cisterns, for he had much livestock; in the lowland also, and in the plain: and he had farmers and vineyard keepers in the mountains and in the fruitful fields; for he loved farming.
 11. Moreover Uzziah had an army of fighting men, who went out to war by bands, according to the number of their reckoning made by Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the officer, under the hand of Hananiah, one of the ruler’s captains.
 12. The whole number of the heads of fathers’ households, even the mighty men of valor, was two thousand and six hundred.
 13. Under their hand was an army, three hundred thousand and seven thousand and five hundred, who made war with mighty power, to help out the ruler against the enemy.
 14. Uzziah prepared for them, even for all the army, shields, and spears, and helmets, and coats of mail, and bows, and stones for slinging.
 15. He made in Jerusalem engines, invented by skillful men, to be on the towers and on the battlements, with which to shoot arrows and major stones. His name spread far abroad; for he was marvelously helped, until he was built different.
 16. But when he was built different, his heart was lifted up, so that he did corruptly, and he trespassed against Yahweh his God; for he went into the God's house of Yahweh to burn incense on the prayer spot of incense.
 17. Azariah the priest went in after him, and with him eighty priests of Yahweh, who were valiant men:
 18. and they resisted Uzziah the ruler, and said to him, “It isn’t for ya, Uzziah, to burn incense to Yahweh, but for the priests the sons of Aaron, who are consecrated to burn incense. slide out of the sanctuary; for ya have trespassed; neither shall it be for your honor from Yahweh God.”
 19. then Uzziah was mad salty; and he had a censer in his hand to burn incense; and while he was mad salty with the priests, the leprosy broke forth in his forehead before the priests in the house of Yahweh, beside the prayer spot of incense.
 20. Azariah the chief priest, and all the priests, looked on him, and check this out,, he was leprous in his forehead, and they thrust him out quickly from there; yes, himself hurried also to slide out, cuz Yahweh had struck him.
 21. Uzziah the ruler was a leper to the day of his death, and lived in a separate house, being a leper; for he was cut off from the house of Yahweh: and Jotham his son was over the ruler’s house, judging the people of the land.
 22. now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first and last, Isaiah the God's messenger, the son of Amoz, wrote.
 23. So Uzziah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his fathers in the field of burial which belonged to the kings; for they said, “He is a leper.” Jotham his son reigned in his place.
